10.23.98
========

Made the trip down to LegendLand and back in one piece. Got to take in all the sites there... haunted elevators, bat cave, fully stocked fridge of caffeine cocktails (right next to 24 hour coffee machine), fully stocked office space, fully stocked conference room for dev-lunch ... and more. It was a good trip - great to see many aspects of tWoT in Action. 


As for now, I've just done a full review of the entire Aes Sedai/White Tower architecture and the work ahead of us. "Light"...this set has all sorts of Great potential. It's gonna be a good one for the LD Team to work with and a good one for the Art Team to texture. With all the special effects, AI, and other work I saw last week...this translates to a very cool gaming experience for all you followers out there...

We continue to fine tune the process....so, stay tuned





10.08.98
=========

Greetings from the Northeast sector...




I've begun following these plan files submitted by tWoT Team, and must admit they add flavor to the personalities.




I enjoy them all, but have been drawn to Ryan Ovrevik's fascination with patterns.Patterns have played a large part in the Art/Architecture/Texturing development for this project as well. He's describing patterns in similar terminology, but with a different application entirely...There's a connection between the pattern influence on the Technical and Art teams and I think it first surfaced in the discussion surrounding "The Timeless Way of Building". I was more drawn to the second title (of 3 in the series) "A Pattern Language", also by C. Alexander. 




Other sources of patterns -



The Fibonacci Series


Phi


Penrose Tilings


"The Grammar of Ornament" by Owen Jones.... You might find a new, slick paperback version, crisply printed on coated white stock, but this musty old 1910 edition I've had access to can't be beat. The large format folio edition with yellowing and faded pages contributes to the ancient ornamental experience. From the book .... 

Proposition 5: Construction should be decorated. Decoration should never be purposely constructed.



(Friedrich) Froebel's Blocks - wooden kindergarten blocks developed by Froebel in the 1830s to teach children the elements of geometric form, mathematics and creative design. Frank Lloyd Wright was fascinated with the blocks.