Account Name:  johna
Email address: johna@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Happy 2000, I hope everyone reading this is doing well!  This is my annual plan update where I take a minute to reflect on the games that I enjoyed the most last year and share them with you.  Out of all the various games I played or looked at last year these are the best of the bunch.  I would recommend any of these games, they are worth your hard earned money and time.  If I had to pick one out of the bunch I would recommend System Shock 2 for it's overall experience and what it has to offer.

First person shooters:

1.  Aliens versus Predator - this is the scariest shooter I've ever played.  Playing, as a marine was very frightening, it was also very difficult (you couldn't save).  Random, very aggressive aliens and darkness are a great combo.  There is constant pressure to keep advancing before your ammo runs out.  They patched the game so now you have limited saves based on the skill level you're playing, this is a perfect fix.  Playing as the Predator was a completely different experience and one that I enjoyed as much as the marines.  The waterfall bonus level under the marines is the first level from the predator missions played in reverse order.  The thing that made it really cool though was the fact that they had lots of marines through out the level trying to stop the alien infestation.  Often you'd come around a corner, see a guy, breath a sign of relief, and then 3 aliens would leap from the darkness and shred the guy and then turn on you.  It is really cool stuff they should have done more of this in the regular marine missions.  Finally you have a set of missions where you play as the aliens.  You have your tail, claws and incredible speed.  It is a completely different experience from the marine and predator but equally enjoyable.  The 3 unique species, the best atmosphere (since Doom), the fright factor and pure enjoyment is why this is my favorite FPS for 1999.

2. Unreal Tournament - very polished, solid game, fun.  Check out the demo, give it a chance, it's a very good game.  Good variety of game styles out of the box.  I also dig on the alt fire combo shots.

3. Quake 3 Arena - good basic deathmatch, I like it much better than Quake 2, although I still can hit anyone with a rail gun.  I don't feel UT or Q3 offer great single player experiences.  If however you've never experienced a multiplayer deathmatch game, these games can give you an idea about what they are like.  I thought releasing something and calling it a "…demo test" was very silly.

4. Carnivores 1 & 2 - Hunting a T-rex in a realistic outdoor environment, this is the best of the simple hunting games.  The absolute worst is "Big game hunter II," one of the worst games I've ever seen.  As a game developer it hurts me to see such trash sell so well while a really great game like Carnivores goes unnoticed.

5. Unreal Mission Pack - return to Na Pali, If you enjoyed Unreal I recommend this add on, I enjoyed it and felt it was as good as Unreal if not better.

Other games:

1. System Shock 2 - This game should be getting game of the year awards left and right.  It is one of the best overall gaming experiences I have ever had.  This game meets the criteria for a great game, if you begin playing in the evening the next thing you'll realize is the suns coming up and you have to pull yourself away from it.  This is why I wanted to make games and why I keep playing them.  It is this kind of gaming experience I want to create for others.  This game has RPG elements, a great story (with depth), and is played from a first person perspective.  Leave your shooter mentality at the door and be prepared for a great experience, this game delivers on many levels.  Even the ending is cool.

2. Descent 3 - If you like 1 and 2, 3 is equally cool.  The first D3 demo wasn't great, the second showed the direction they took the game and it's much better.  Great looking game, with some really great weapon effects, I really enjoyed it, but I'm an old descent freak.

3. Mid Town Madness - After playing this game I feel like I could find my way around Chicago.  Crank up the traffic and people density and go for a spin down the wrong side of the freeway.  The traffic flow through out the city makes this game feel like a real place.  I enjoyed the cruise mode (no objectives, just fun) where you could wonder aimlessly for hours doing nothing in particular.  It's a lot of fun, especially in a semi truck or city bus.

4. Grim Fandango - I usually enjoy Lucasart's adventures so this wasn't a big surprise.  I liked the interface, where you moved Manny about the world and he would look towards areas of interest.  My wife and I played this one together and it was very enjoyable.

5. X-Wing Alliance - I'm a huge Star Wars fan and loved the X-Wing and Tie Fighter games of the early and mid 90's.  Alliance met and exceeded all of my expectations.  Great story with some nice surprises.  Speaking of the original X-wing and Tie Fighter, if you liked them (or never played them) you can get both and all the add-ons that where created for them on the X-Wing collector series for around $30.  The really cool thing is that they updated them to a newer engine as well.

6. Homeworld - This is my favorite real time strategy game for the year.  I love sci-fi space stuff so I was very intrigued by this title.  This game is awesome, it has the best story ever in an RTS with lots of twists and surprises.  This is a full 3D RTS and the way they've handled the fleet management is excellent.  They have a great tutorial that will get you up and fighting in no time.  The only complaint I have is that it has gotten very difficult for me, the game self adjusts to your skill, but it's kicking my butt.  Even with online strategy guides I'm still having some difficulties, but I'm not that great at RTS's.


I hope everyone has a great New Year, one last bit of news (saved the best for last) my wonderful wife is pregnant with our third child.  We just found out and confirmed it.  This is going to be a great year!
