Login: landonm        			Name: Landon Montgomery
Mail forwarded to lanmont@netmail.home.com
Plan:
8-16-99

My how time flies.

Last year, I anticipated several titles and enjoyed nearly every one.
One game in particular stood out in a BIG way to me personally
and instantly became one of my favorote games of all time.  People
around the office will tell you that I tend to rate people on
this said scale at times but hey...it's just one of those things.
It's like asking someone if they like Rush, Dream Theater and MST3K
all at once.  Those three threads alone don't necesarily secure this
person as a cool cat but if they're fans of each, it's a pretty damn
good start! 

Anyhow, the scale...Thief captured my full attention because I had
been waiting for just such a game...a game with it's emphasis in
the right place...stealth.  And what's this?  Rewarded for not killing
anyone?!!  Finally!  I loved expert mode!  In any event, it was not my
most anticpated game of last year, but quickly and easily became my
favorite of '98 and nudged it's way into my "famous" top 10.  

So of course when System Shock 2 was announced way back when, I began
counting the days.  I've only anticpated one other title as much as SS2
this year and in a sense, it's all in the family...U9:Ascension.

When the gap narrowed to but a short week before SS2's release, I dusted
off SS1 and prepared to welcome the sequel in style.  I hadn't touched
SS1 (ver:cd) in close to 3 years and I was completely surprised by how
playable and absolutley enjoyable it was by todays standards.  Disregarding
mouselook which is subsituted by the old CTRL+UP/DOWN, I had a great time
the 2nd time around and finished up just in time to begin SS2 late Saturday
evening with every light in the house off.  The box had been leering at me
all week since picking it up...tempting me with the taste of nuts and honey...

Did it live up?  I'm having a helluva time.  Irrational, you've done a
wonderful job. I hate rating games before I finish them but with something
as anticpated as this, you can tell within your first hour or so
if you're back in the same cozy pair of shoes, and I am.  It's very obvious
a lot of thought went into every inch of design and it's come together
in an incredible package.

So far, Looking Glass has provided me with my favorite game
of the year 2 years running.  It's not often that I savor a game to the
point of putting off playing it until I can give it my full attention
on the weekends, and I realize that may sound strange to a lot of you
(a lot of you know exactly what I'm talking about), but some things you
just enjoy too much to rush.  I get religious about some things I suppose.

Congratulations to the entire team.  I eagerly await drinking many beers
with you when any of you are in Dallas.

Unrelated note;  The Fragile, nin's new album, has a street date!
September 21st!  And I just read that he's playing at the 9-9-99
MTV Music Video Awards...