Login: landonm        			Name: Landon Montgomery
Mail forwarded to lanmont@netmail.home.com
Plan:
2-24-00

(dust dust)

A few weeks ago, we started receiving some calls from various people at
Sierra and Valve congratulating us on the most recent PC Gamer appearance.
We thought 'Wow - that's been out for a month or so, but thanks!' - see,
at the time, the big Half-Life extravaganza February issue was the new
issue to us.  So we smiled and said thanks and all that.

Then it happened again the next day.  Curious, we asked if all of this was
regarding the February issue.  In that issue, we were awarded Game of
the Month amidst the release of some truly stellar titles, Unreal Tournament
and U9:Ascension being just two.  To us, that and the wonderful review
guaranteed enough internal back-patting and smiles all around for some time
to come so we just naturally assumed that that was the big news.

But nope.  The sixth annual PC Gamer Awards issue was circulating in some
areas and within we had made some big news indeed.  We had been awarded
the 'Best Expansion Pack' of the year and in wonderful fashion.  That's the
best we could have hoped for and it felt GREAT.  But flip a few pages
back...and what's this?!  We were named as runner-up to Game of the Year!!!
That was WAY beyond any of our expectations.  Here we were hoping for just
a mention of some sort.  We were completely blown away with the previous
month's Game of the Month award, and now even more so with receiving
Expansion of the Year, but never in our wildest dreams did we expect to
make history as the only expansion pack ever to be considered for game of
the year!  We shared some incredible limelight as well - System Shock II as
runner up as well (being my personal pick as my favorite game of the year)
with Homeworld taking the top honors.

The OpFor team did an amazing job and I'm so excited that a lot of the
industry newbies at Gearbox were able to debut on the scene in such a
wonderful fashion.  Congratulations again all around!