Name: Robert Gee
Email: rgee@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Artist
Project: Star Trek
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
04.27.99
********

Someday, we'll look back on this, laugh nervously and
change the subject.

********

WORK-

So far I've completed 10 animations on the bad'un I'm currently
working on. Can't say what it is yet (after E3), but since I'm
using two meshes on one skeleton/animation hierarchy, I guess
I've finished 20 so far ;)

We're concentrating on getting a high number of various death and
pain anims into the game for each model. Getting a little sick of
seeing the same pain animations assigned over and over again. Same
with the after-death poses... When you get four or more guys laying
dead in a room - all in the same position - it just doesn't cut it.
Makes me think of synchronized swimming for some reason.
Time for some variety.

LIFE-

Got a pretty nifty email to share - even if you've read some of them
before, read them all again. They're worth it. It's a human kinda thing.

:)

Important Things Life Teaches You...

1 - Most Important Question During my second month of nursing school,
our professor gave us a pop quiz. I was a conscientious student and
had breezed through the questions, until I read the last one: "What
is the first name of the woman who cleans the school?" Surely this
was some kind of joke. I had seen the cleaning woman several times.
She was tall, dark-haired and in her 50s, but how would I  know her
name? I handed in my paper, leaving the last question blank. Before
class ended, one student asked if the last question would count toward
our quiz grade. "Absolutely," said the professor. "In your careers you
will meet many people. All are significant. They deserve your attention
and care, even if all you do is smile and say 'hello'." I've never
forgotten that lesson. I also learned her name was Dorothy.

2 - Pickup in the Rain One night, at 11:30 PM, an older African American
woman was standing on the side of an Alabama highway trying to endure a
lashing rain storm.  Her car had broken down and she desperately needed
a ride. Soaking wet, she decided to flag down the next car. A young white
man stopped to help her - generally unheard of in those conflict-filled
1960s. The man took her to safety, helped her get assistance and put her
into a taxi cab.  She seemed to be in a  big hurry! She wrote down his
address, thanked him and drove away. Seven days went by and a knock came
on the man's door. To his surprise, a giant console color TV was delivered
to his home.  A special note was attached. It read: "Thank you so much for
assisting me on the highway the other night. The rain drenched not only
my clothes but my spirits. Then you came along. Because of you, I was able
to make it to my dying husband's bedside just before he passed away. God
bless you for helping me and unselfishly serving others."

Sincerely,
Mrs. Nat King Cole


3 - Always Remember Those Who Serve
In the days when an ice cream sundae cost much less, a 10 year old  boy
entered a hotel coffee shop and sat at a table. A waitress put a glass
of water in front of him. "How much is an ice cream sundae?"  "Fifty cents,"
replied the waitress. The little boy pulled his hand out of his pocket and
studied a number of coins in it. "How much is a dish of plain ice cream?"
he inquired. Some people were now waiting for a table and the waitress was
a bit impatient. "Thirty-five cents," she said brusquely. The little boy
again counted the coins. "I'll have the plain ice cream," he said. The
waitress brought the ice cream, put the bill on the table and walked away.
The boy finished the ice cream, paid the cashier and departed. When the
waitress came back, she began wiping down the table and then swallowed
hard at what she saw. There, placed neatly beside the empty dish, were
two nickels and five pennies - her tip.

4 - The Obstacle in Our Path
In ancient times, a king had a boulder placed on a roadway. Then he hid
himself and watched to see if anyone would remove the huge rock. Some of
the king's wealthiest merchants and courtiers came by and simply walked
around it. Many loudly blamed the king for not keeping the roads clear,
but none did anything about getting the big stone out of the way. Then
a peasant came along carrying a load of vegetables. On approaching the
boulder, the peasant laid down his burden and tried to move the stone
to the side of the road. After much pushing and straining, he finally
succeeded. As the peasant picked up his load of vegetables, he noticed
a purse lying in the road where the boulder had been. The purse contained
many gold coins and a note from the king indicating that the gold was for
the person who removed the boulder from the roadway. The peasant learned
what many others never understand. Every obstacle presents an opportunity
to improve one's condition.

5 - Giving Blood
Many years ago, when I worked as a volunteer at Stanford Hospital, I got to
know a little girl named Liz who was suffering from a rare and serious disease.
Her only chance of recovery appeared to be a blood transfusion from her 5-year
old brother, who had miraculously survived the same disease and had developed
the antibodies needed to combat the illness. The doctor explained the situation
to her little brother, and asked the boy if he would be willing to give his
blood to his sister. I saw him hesitate for only a moment before taking a deep
breath and saying, "Yes, I'll do it if it will save Liz."  As the transfusion
progressed, he lay in bed next to his sister and smiled, as we all did, seeing
the color returning to her cheeks.  Then his face grew pale and his smile faded.
He looked up at the doctor and asked with a trembling voice, "Will I start to
die right away?" Being young, the boy had misunderstood the doctor; he thought
he was going to have to give his sister all of his blood.

6 - I've Two Choices
Jerry was the kind of guy you love to hate. He was always in a good mood and
always had something positive to say. When someone would ask him how he was
doing, he would reply, "If I were any better, I would be twins!"  He was a
unique manager because he had several waiters who had followed him around
from restaurant to restaurant. The reason the waiters followed Jerry was because
of his attitude. He was a natural motivator. If an employee was having a bad day,
Jerry was there telling the employee how to look on the positive side of the
situation. Seeing this style really made me curious, so one day I went up to
Jerry and asked him, "I don't get it!  You can't be a positive person all of
the time. How do you do it?" Jerry replied, "Each morning I wake up and say
to myself, Jerry, you have two choices today. You can choose to be in a good
mood or you can choose to be in a bad mood." I choose to be in a good mood.
Each time something bad happens, I can choose to be a victim or I can choose
to learn from it. I choose to learn from it.  Every time someone comes to me
complaining, I can choose to accept their complaining or I can point out the
positive side of life. I choose the positive side of life."  "Yeah, right, it's
not that easy," I protested. "Yes it is," Jerry said.  "Life is all about choices.
When you cut away all the junk, every situation is a choice. You choose how you
react to situations. You choose how people will affect your mood. You choose to
be in a good mood or bad mood.  The bottom line: It's your choice how you live life."  
I reflected on what Jerry said. Soon thereafter, I left the restaurant industry
to start my own business. We lost touch, but often thought about him when I made
a choice about life instead of reacting to it.  Several years later, I heard that
Jerry did something you are never supposed to do in a restaurant business, he
left the back door open one morning and was held up at gun point by three armed
robbers. While trying to open the safe, his hand, shaking from nervousness,
slipped off the combination.  The robbers panicked and shot him. Luckily, Jerry
was found relatively quickly and rushed to the local trauma center.  After 18
hours of surgery and weeks of intensive care, Jerry was released from the hospital
with fragments of the bullets still in his body.  I saw Jerry about six months
after the accident. When I asked him how he was, he said, "If I were any better,
I'd be twins. Wanna see my scars?" I declined to see his wounds but did ask him
what had gone through his mind as the robbery took place. "The first thing that
went through my mind was that I should have locked the back door," Jerry replied.
"Then, as I lay on the floor, I remembered that I had two choices - I could choose
to live, or I could choose to die. I chose to live. "Weren't you scared? Did you
lose consciousness?" I asked. Jerry continued, "The paramedics were great. They
kept telling me I was going to be fine. But when they wheeled me into the emergency
room and I saw the expressions on the faces of the doctors and nurses, I got
really scared. In their eyes, I read, 'He's a dead man. " I knew I needed to take
action."  "What did you do?" I asked.  "Well, there was a big, burly nurse shouting
questions at me," said Jerry. "She asked if I was allergic to anything.  'Yes,' I
replied. The doctors and nurses stopped working as they waited for my reply. I took
a deep breath and yelled, 'Bullets!' Over their laughter, I told them, "I am
choosing to live.  Operate on me as if I am alive, not dead."  Jerry lived thanks
to the skill of his doctors, but also because of his amazing attitude. I learned
from him that every day we have the choice to live fully. Attitude, after all,
is everything.

You have 2 choices now 
1. Move on to more .plan updates or internet browsings, or
2. Copy and paste these and forward them to people you care about. Hope you will choose No. 2.


 Work like you don't need the money.
 Love like you've never been hurt.
 Dance like nobody's watching.


Here endeth the lesson ;)