Name: Robert Gee
Email: rgee@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Artist
Project: Star Trek
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
08.20.99
********

GUYS: No shirt, no service.  GALS: No shirt, no charge.

********

Hey all, ST:V - Elite Force is moving ahead apace. We got some more
approvals from Paramount, including some creature models we recently
finished up - so I started final setup on one and will begin animating
it today. Eric and Shubes helped me set up some nice little expressions
including a complicated IK system married to a constrained directional
null system. This beastie should make a few eyes pop when it's done.
I am confident it will kick ass. More later...

As for some personal news - for those that know and care, Katie's most
recent cardio appointment (quarterly) was yesterday. My wife summed it
up thusly to some family friends, and thought I'd share it with all
the .plan readers out there and a few old internet friends:

  Katie's appt. went better than expected. Although the news wasn't all 
  good it was not as bad as it could have been. Her atrium is 
  increasing in size to compensate for the ventricle loss so her 
  fatigue is a bigger factor. Also, her blood is "pooling" and 
  circulating in a small area making clotting a major issue but she is 
  on blood thinners to combat it. The Dr. has suggested that we "bond" 
  with a transplant center because when the time comes things will move 
  quickly and we need to be prepared so we are now considering 
  Milwaukee as a center because it is close and we can keep 
  Christopher's "world" semi normal.

That's it for now True-believers.
Till Kim & Kenn are revealed as the current Sith Lords, make mine Mignola.



08.02.99
********

As long as there are tests, there will be prayer in public schools.

********

Elite Force is coming along nicely. The newest mission area (undisclosed at this time) is in the
final stages of defining it's overall look. The designers and artists have most of the "major" areas
done and have been tweaking out textures, architecture and lighting effects for final approvals. The
entire mission area is really looking great - the original concept sketches were done with Quake III's
curved surface capabilities in mind. Needless to say, it won't be a very friendly neighborhood when
it's done ;).

While I'm waiting for some model approvals to be reviewed, I've spent some more time setting up some
additional animations for the scavengers. We've been fortunate to have access to the SoF animation
data base, as well as using the CHIMAERA system for our humanoid models to apply the animations to.
We're using a fair number of the mo-capped scenes that Scott and Eric set up with hOuse of mOves.
But unfortunately, there are a few animations we can't use. Most Star Trek races have a very distinct
body language and just wouldn't look right doin that gang bang thang. Klingons just don't go talkin
smack while they cap :) A big thanks to Eric Turman for the ungodly hours he put into setting up the
CHIMAERA system. He has much honor.

Shubes is working on the creature that will be found hanging around the newest levels, mentioned above.
Brian P. is working with Bill to get our official website finalized - it's really looking pretty sweet.
Mark has been doing more concepts, as well as helping Brian get the story boards done for future cinematics.
Lampo has been a big help exporting all the anims for me so that Mike can edit and reclip them into the 
game. Kim has been working with Les to get the characters' heads and faces done. B'elanna is looking hot.
hmmmmmmm.... B'elanna. Les has been busy making models and working with Steve R. on some new effects that the
designers will be able to set up in their levels. Todd, Mark, Kim, and our newest artist - Andrew Trabbold -
have been creating some very impressive textures for the new levels. 

So, as I said, things are coming along nicely.

A big welcome back to Chris Foster and Kenn Hoekstra. Both Soldier of Fortune and STV: Elite Force had a
strong showing at the Activate Conference in Scotland. Sounds like they had a good time and were able to
enjoy some of the sights and tastes of Scotland. My Granny Mac would be happy to hear of two more haggis
converts added to the clan. :)

And a big welcome to Andy. He's a fellow UW-Eau Claire art alumni and a Water Street veteran. Andy has 
been a regular artist for many of the Vampire Dark Ages and Mage books published by White Wolf Game Studio.
For those of you who don't know what Water Street is - it's the most concentrated number of bars in a two
block area in the state of Wisconsin. It's the heart of the city's college party scene and one of the
deepest pits of Hell. God, I miss it....