
Name: Robert Gee
Email: rgee@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Artist
Project: Star Trek
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
08.20.99
********

On the other hand, you have different fingers.

********

Well, it looks like we'll be getting the skeletal system up and running some time next
week or soon after Christmas vacation (is it really a vacation when most of it is spent
driving?). It sounds like it should make the whole animation process much easier for us
and look better too. Double Bonus! Gil has taken some time out from SoF to set it up for
us and James has devoted much of his time to it as well. 

There's something else I hope the skeletal system will take care of: This whole "Katherine
Hepburn" effect that's created by the tag system that QuakeIII Arena uses. It's a great
solution to allow anyone to create a player model in almost any modeling/animation package
that will work with the Q3 engine. It was designed for all you mod-makers out there, so be
damn grateful that's the way they did it. It does, however, make things a bit complicated
for us developers -> The only unfortunate side-effect is the Hepburn Effect that crops up
when different player components (torso and legs, let's say) share separate animations.
The legs are idling nice and smoothly but the rest of the model from waist up does this
little funky spasm thing that is best described by Katherine Hepburn's physical condition
as seen in Golden Pond. No disrespect to the Late actress, but it accurately describes the
effect so there is no confusion when someone brings it up. "Borg on Golden Pond"

It's something to do with the interpolation in the MD3Viewer and in the game itself. It's
barely noticeable in QuakeIII because of the fast-speed action game play. But the kind of
game we're making requires to have models (people) standing around casually while they
work or interact. It's these simple and subtle animations where the Hepburn Effect becomes
a big problem. We've solved the problem using Softimage's expressions tools, or I should say
that Eric Turman fixed it for us - basically a "constraint switch" that we can turn on or off
before exporting the geometry. It's been an additional step that I hope the skeletal system
can alleviate. We shall see....

Other EF News -> We'll be updating the website in the next few weeks with some new renderings
of aliens, weapons and Hazard Team members so keep checking back there and you'll finally
see what Munro looks like. The Hazard suit itself is getting a new look sometime soon - after
it's been approved we'll be sure to make some screenshots available to show it off =)

The game is looking great - things are starting to gel and it's starting to "feel" like a
game. We're at that point where the majority of our tools, utilities and procedures have
been tested and hammered out so things are being done faster and more efficiently. Kinda
like when the team is able to shift up a gear and you're able to see what this baby can
do. Wish I could say more, but I won't.

Congrats to both Id and Epic for helping me put down AoK for a while. Every lunch hour is spent
admiring your work and efforts. Haven't had this much fun since HereticII bladematch! It'll
be a while before I go back to my RTS ways....

-RG 

