Name: Robert Gee
Email: rgee@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Artist
Project: Star Trek
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12.20.99
********

You know, a lot of girls go out with me just to further their careers...damn anthropologists.

********

Oops, I made a boo boo - Katherine Hepburn is alive and well living in Connecticut.
Thanks for the heads up on that one, Mr. Staley =)

I just pray she doesn't read my .plan and takes offense. =O

An Elite Force note: The hazard team uniform is getting a facelift. We'll be holding off
updating the rendered skin and models of each Team member on the website until it's been
approved and such. We'll let you know when we make the shots available.

Well, Merry Christmas to all of you and safe travel to any of those who plan to hit the
roads this Holiday season. I hope the spirit of Christmas brings good cheer and peace to
you all. Take time to remember the baby born in Bethlehem and what it was that he died for.
I don't usually get spiritual or religious on my .plan file, but my kids asked some good
questions about Christmas last night and it made me realize just how glossed over Christmas
can get sometimes. So on that note:

A lion roars in the darkness
Only he holds the key
A light to free me from my burden
And grant me life eternally

-My own Prison, CREED

Werd.


12.17.99
********

On the other hand, you have different fingers.

********

Well, it looks like we'll be getting the skeletal system up and running some time next
week or soon after Christmas vacation (is it really a vacation when most of it is spent
driving?). It sounds like it should make the whole animation process much easier for us
and look better too. Double Bonus! Gil has taken some time out from SoF to set it up for
us and James has devoted much of his time to it as well. 

There's something else I hope the skeletal system will take care of: This whole "Katherine
Hepburn" effect that's created by the tag system that QuakeIII Arena uses. It's a great
solution to allow anyone to create a player model in almost any modeling/animation package
that will work with the Q3 engine. It was designed for all you mod-makers out there, so be
damn grateful that's the way they did it. It does, however, make things a bit complicated
for us developers -> The only unfortunate side-effect is the Hepburn Effect that crops up
when different player components (torso and legs, let's say) share separate animations.
The legs are idling nice and smoothly but the rest of the model from waist up does this
little funky spasm thing that is best described by Katherine Hepburn's physical condition
as seen in Golden Pond. No disrespect to the Late actress, but it accurately describes the
effect so there is no confusion when someone brings it up. "Borg on Golden Pond"

It's something to do with the interpolation in the MD3Viewer and in the game itself. It's
barely noticeable in QuakeIII because of the fast-speed action game play. But the kind of
game we're making requires to have models (people) standing around casually while they
work or interact. It's these simple and subtle animations where the Hepburn Effect becomes
a big problem. We've solved the problem using Softimage's expressions tools, or I should say
that Eric Turman fixed it for us - basically a "constraint switch" that we can turn on or off
before exporting the geometry. It's been an additional step that I hope the skeletal system
can alleviate. We shall see....

Other EF News -> We'll be updating the website in the next few weeks with some new renderings
of aliens, weapons and Hazard Team members so keep checking back there and you'll finally
see what Munro looks like. The Hazard suit itself is getting a new look sometime soon - after
it's been approved we'll be sure to make some screenshots available to show it off =)

The game is looking great - things are starting to gel and it's starting to "feel" like a
game. We're at that point where the majority of our tools, utilities and procedures have
been tested and hammered out so things are being done faster and more efficiently. Kinda
like when the team is able to shift up a gear and you're able to see what this baby can
do. Wish I could say more, but I won't.

Congrats to both Id and Epic for helping me put down AoK for a while. Every lunch hour is spent
admiring your work and efforts. Haven't had this much fun since HereticII bladematch! It'll
be a while before I go back to my RTS ways....

-RG