Account Name:  Bryan Turner
Email address: bryant@3drealms.com
----------
12/23/98 1:15 pm

Umm..  What to write about?

Well I have not done a tech plan file in a while because there has not been a reason to. The main problems that I still get are MODEM and SOUND, and since I covered those already I will not do them again. :)

So BBS!

(That is not slang for a dirty word) 

Do you know what a "BBS" is? Maybe you haven’t heard of one before, or maybe you have heard about them but are not exactly sure what they are.

A BBS is just short for a bulletin board system. A BBS is a place where people with a computer and modem can come together into one place and play games, share files, messages and ideas. BBS’s are usually free, labors of love by those who run them. Some BBS’s may charge a small fee to help with the expenses, but most don’t. (Mine does not)

BBS’s are like virtual communities, a place to meet new people and make new friends. You can meet Jim from across town, or Sue from across the street. You can exchange ideas with people that have similar interests, or learn new interests from others. You can play on-line games, pitting your wits against your friends and neighbors.

How do you use a BBS?

You first need a special program called a terminal emulator. A terminal emulator simply allows you to use a modem to call the BBS. Terminal emulators are not’t hard to find. Maybe you have a friend that can give you one. If you have Windows, you already have a terminal emulator called Hyper Term (or Terminal in win 3.xx) which can be found under accessories in the Start Menu (or under the "Accessories" group, in win 3.xx). You can also download a terminal emulator from the web.

http://bbs.kerowyns-haven.com/bbsaware/files/userdisk.zip

Once you have the terminal emulator running, look under the menu for the dial option. From there you can dial a BBS. The modem will dial and soon you will connect. After you connect, it might tell you to press a certain key. Do so, and soon you will come to the log-on screen. If the screen asks for your first name, go ahead and put in your real first name to start out. If it asks for a user name or an alias it's probably best to enter in new. That's all there is to it, each individual system that you call from now on will give you the information you need to get access to the system.

Now the hard part. How to find numbers that are local to you? Well it is not that hard, because once you get one and call there will be more listed on the one that you called. :)

The easiest way would be for you to call a local computer store and ask if they know of any. Or you can do a search on the net for BBS numbers. I did a search via http://altavista.digital.com for:

+BBS +1-972 and came up with 74 web pages that had BBS numbers on
them, all you need to do is change the 972 to your area code and you should get tons. :)

My BBS name is Pegasus Flight and it is in Dallas the number is 972-557-6762 It is opened 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Lots of On-line Games and such!

So in closing when you get tired of waiting for a line to open up so you can get on the Internet, Think about calling a BBS. You might find out that you like it a lot.

Personal Stuff:

Nothing Much. My truck is not painted yet, although it is solid Primer now. :)

Games that I am playing:

Single Player
Tomb Raider II - Just finished
Tomb Raider III - Just started

Multi:
Power Slide. (I rule!)

That's it for now. Hope to hear from you on a BBS! You can write to me in most of the echoes. :)

bat
	
    