[mail.planetquake.com]

User:   jack
Read:   0
Unread: 0
Time:   Sun, 27 Jul 1997 02:09:13 -0700
Plan:
Wow!  Seems I've finally got a .plan!

Updated - 7/26/97 - 10:22pm ----------------------------------------

This is gonna be a monster of an update.

I made a QuakeCon update.  It's gone now :)

For one, looks like QSpy 5.3 is nearing completion, and it should 
be pretty fun.  This is been a ajor bug fix release, as well as a 
couple new features.  QSpy 5.4 should be big-time super-keen cool.

QuakeWorld is where a lot of my time has been poured into lately.  I
am now uploading textures to the card in 8-bit format, so the card 
renders them *better* and takes less texture RAM.  Combat will be 
usable on GLQW, and yes, the 8-bit uploads will make it to GLQuake 
too.  The HUD, though, will not, because GLQuake is "classic" Quake,
and that's that.  Also, the physics are fixed and Zoid got in 
individual maxspeeds for players, so the TF scout will have an 
advantage again.  There's some other stuff I'm thinking about doing
that could surprise people.  Stay tuned.

Also, surprise does not mean that if you email me asking for what 
the surprise is, that I'll tell you.  It means that I'm not sure 
how feasible it is right now and don't want to tell anyone for fear 
of embarrassing myself. :)

I enjoyed QuakeCon plenty, BTW, as well as mine and Zoid's QW 
presentation/seminar thing.  Zoid did most of the talking, it's 
almost like he prepared or something :)  But it was still really 
cool.

Now, a few words on the Direct3D stuff.  Here's the skinny.  The 
reason GL is preferred to D3D is not so much speed now except for 
programmibility.  For gaming purposes, COM is a bad, bulky model.  
Plus, OGL is a consortium effort (which Microsoft is a part of), 
whereas D3D is a Microsoft effort.  Now, you ask, what does poor
little Microsoft have to GAIN from this?  Well, many things.  For 
one, it puts people's trust towards Microsoft.  Microsoft made D3D,
games use D3D, it must be good.  Two, it puts people to Windows. 
OGL is an easily portable extension, D3D is not.  Three, it makes 
people use Microsoft development tools.  Now you may think "Whoa, 
wait a minute buster, MS puts out the SDK's at the same time."  Yes,
they do.  So install the SDK, go into Borland C++ and move over a
DirectX member/class and try for context sensitive help on it.  
Chances are, it's not there or it's an older version than the one in
VC++.  Microsoft did the same thing with OLE.  You needed OLE for 
Win95 compatibility, so they released the specs, then out came VC++
4.0 with 32-bit OLE inside MFC wrappers all built in and pretty.  
Microsoft's mantra has always been something like, "We want every 
computer to run Microsoft software."  They always deny that it's 
*exclusively* Microsoft software, but if you don't own all the 
software, how can you guarantee that users will run yours?  This 
quote from GameSpot sums it up VERY nicely.  Notice the second to 
last word:

Bachus spoke to Carmack a few days ago and Bachus says, "DirectX has 
no conflict at all with OpenGL, and we'd be happy to help Carmack 
tune his software for any Microsoft API."

Sickening.

Updated - 7/9/97 - 4:22pm ------------------------------------------

Well, time for my monthly .plan update :)

First things first, to the people that say Quake (and thus 
QuakeWorld) ONLY use the FPU for "clever string optimizations," that
is one of the silliest things I've ever heard.  Try again, guys.

Also, the QSpy 5.3 beta is going well.  We expect a release in a 
couple weeks, though we haven't gotten all too much feedback from
the regged users!  Mostly, the stuff we've put in are fixes to chat,
general fixes, the new UI, (try Ctrl-clicking on the masters, it's 
fun) and some traceroute and hopcount stuff.  Pretty cool.  5.4 is
where the chat will REALLY shine though.  We have some BIG plans
in mind for that, as well as the auto mod downloading.  Oh, context
sensitive help should be in the next beta.

The next release of QuakeWorld will rock.  Me and Zoid are working 
on some pretty cool stuff that should tide people over till Quake 2 
comes out.  We've all used the same interface for a year, may as 
well change it around some.  We've fixed the hat and dinput problems
people have been adding, and I'm considering adding six-axis support
for the SpaceOrb.  We're also working on the GL lag problems, 
big-time.  We should have screenshots up pretty soon on that on
http://www.quakeworld.net.

Also, the QSpy chat has now merged with Disruptor's new 3DNet, and 
that's going great as well.  There are the occasional netsplits, but
as the network gets bigger, it should even out better.

Also, it really makes me feel bad to see id have to defend its honor 
because of what some peon webmaster says.  Sigh.

By the way, I'll be at QuakeCon 97, which will be a blast.  Can't 
wait to see everyone I met at e3 again and meet new people as well.  
And maybe this time I'll have someone ELSE take pictures of Gateway 
drunk, since the pictures I took on his roll of film "didn't come out 
right." :-)

Updated - 6/12/97 - 11:03pm ----------------------------------------

Wow, two .plan updates in one day, how cool :) Anyways, wonderful
news for you TeamFortress whores.  FOV is now GLQW.  No, we're not
gonna put it in GLQuake right now, we may do it when we get time.
Now, there is a certain page that advocated massmailing my good
friend Zoid about this, and still maintains a glib attiture about
it, assuming that if *he* didn't do something, how would *we* know?
If you think that we're that out of touch, thanks for the vote of
confidence.  People like that actually *discourage* me from trying
to add things in...

Also, for this next release, Alt-tabbing won't work right for a lot
of people, because of a bug in GLIDE that the developers assure me 
they are working to fix.  Is *will* put you in your Windows res, but
it will freeze your video when you switch back.  Oh well.

Also, Joystick hats *might* work again, they might not.  If only 
some big company would send me *something* to test it with.

Updated - 6/12/97 - 12:38am ----------------------------------------

Well, this is fun.  Looks like QuakeWorld is gonna be released 
really soon.  This includes a *load* of bugfixes and other fun stuff
like chasecam and GL support.  Man, Zoid is good.  There's plenty
of other things that have been done also...  But I mainly wanted to 
say one thing people have asked...  No Verite support.  Sorry.  
Please don't email me or Zoid about that.

Well, looks like QW's *real* lag reducton has happened!  Get QW 1.64
and QSpy 5.21, which supports the new masters, from 
http://www.quakespy.com.

I have an interview with Gamecenter:
http://www.gamecenter.com/News/Item/0,3,411,00.html

I've also been on QuakeCast twice (http://www.pseudo.com).
Listen to it!

UPGRADE TO 5.21 NOW!!!  5.1 emits deadly RADIATION.  We've
fixed this is 5.21.

Ummmm...  Don't eat yellow snow...  And please register QSpy.  

Also, I don't think Kid of Kid n' Play is still on Later.  But he 
was.  And Pauly Shore has a SITCOM!  What has this world come to?

My email's jack@quakespy.com, if you want to drop a note.
