Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: nels.bruckner     Plan Last Modified: 05/17/1999 11:34:30 PST

Real Name: Nels Bruckner
Nickname: Nailz
Job: Manager
Project: Tribes (2)
E-Mail: nels.bruckner@dynamix.com

[5/12]
     Well, the gang is off to E3.  I'm holdin' down
the fort while they are gone... workin' hard! ;)

     The demo we sent to E3 is, IMHO, awesome.  Sure,
Tribes 2 is around a year away, and yeah, this is
just the very tip of the iceberg but damn it looks
good so far.  I think our E3 presence should generate
some heat this year.  Be sure to check us out if you
are at the show.

[5/4]
     Hard to believe it's been so long since I
updated.  Hmmm... must be busy or something.

     Speaking of busy, we are cranking on the E3
demo for Tribes 2.  Even though this isn't set for
release until next year it is already looking hot.
Everyone on the team is doing awesome work for the
new game.

     On the Tribes 1 front, the recently released
patch 1.4.1 plugs some serious security holes in the
server.  It is strongly recommended that all server
opperators update asap.  Also, the 1.4 release in
general fixed some possible cheats over the 1.3
versions. So, yeah, get it.

     OpenGL - we are still working with nVidia to get
drivers that will run Tribes acceptably on the TNT
and TNT 2.

     I actually had a Mac G3 in my office for a
couple of days!  Ugh.  Still, had to check out Q3A.
Interesting.  Gameplay didn't turn my crank but the
graphics looked nice.


[3/26]
     Just a quick note of clarification about the
Quake(2) editor stuff.  The added support will allow
3rd party editors to be used to make the buildings
that get placed in Tribes maps.  Creating landscapes,
placing objects, mission scripting, etc. will all
still be handled via the various tools that ship with
Tribes and/or get shipped in the near future in our
free editing package/patch.  Obviously, it would be
very limiting to use a Quake-style editor to try to
make a whole Tribes level.


[3/25]
     ZED is dead, baby...

     We are putting the (hopefully) finishing touches
on the various mission building tools as well as a
few tweaks to the OpenGL stuff.  We have decided to
end development on our in-house building editor,
"ZED".  We will probably release the current version
of ZED with the other tools but in the near future it
will be replaced with a converter for Quake-style
maps.  Since there are so many good Quake(2) map
editors around (WorldCraft, etc.) this is a pretty
easy decision at this point.  Of course, way back
when we started on Tribes there weren't very many
nice editors available and it seemed like a good idea
to build our own.  Ahhhh, what a difference a few
years can make. :)


--Nailz


[Now Playing:]
Brujeria - El Patron

[Top 5 Bands:]
Black Sabbath (forever, man)
Corrosion of Confomity (Deliverance,Wiseblood,Blind)
Mercyful Fate
Overkill (a consistantly awesome band)
Metallica

[Car Lust:]
McLaren F1 (duh)
Ferrari F355 F1
Lamborghini Diablo (any flavor)
...maybe a Hummer or something 4WD... for the snow.

[Favored Cigars:]
Montecristo #2
Opus X (#2, robusto, all of them)
Cohiba Esplendito (melo, but tasty)