Ion Storm

User Name.........larry
Full Name.........Larry Herring
Description.......Map dude
Last NT Logon.....Monday, November 24, 1997 at 11:14

Monday Nov. 24 1997

Hows it going!!
Its been a while since I've updated my .plan file, due to 
being very busy concentrating on level design for Anachronox.

I recently built a Quake DM map and I've released it on the
net to CD Rom.com and a copy is also available on 
zdims weapon rack. The name of the map is Vanguard Spectacle, 
you can download the map at:
http://www.geocities.com/TimesSquare/Alley/6181/Vanguard.zip.

A bunch of the guys here at ION have been playing it, and
they really like it.  I enjoy playing the level as well. so 
grab it, check it out and let me know what you think. It
is a deathmatch only map so find some friends to play.

Getting ready for thanksgiving so I will be gone from Weds - Sun, so I'm 
looking forward to visiting with the family.  Anachronox is looking great.
The level design team has started on a new group of levels which
we are all excited about building.  Tom, Rich and I have been talking
about going on the 3d Alpha Anachronox chat once a week to chat 
with people in the community who want to talk about the game, so 
we will try to get that coordinated so we can talk about stuff.
Well enough for now.....

Remember.... Mars Ain't the kind of place to raise your kids!

Later
Rocketman






Friday oct. 17 1997

Hey, a bunch of us here at the office checked out Iikka's
Air Quake and we were all very impressed, it looks alot of fun
to play.  Those of us here on Team Anachronox are very proud
that Iikka will be joining us as a level designer.  
Texturing for the city of Anachronox is coming
along great, also we are starting to see some very cool
models.  Today will be the second Anachronox happy hour
at wall streets accross the street from the office.  so 
everything is going great.
			Later
			Rocketman





Tuesday oct. 14 1997

Well have been concentrating on texturing for the past two days,
and I must say that its coming along very well.  Niqui Wright
is the texture artist that works with me on my levels, and she
is great!!!  Team Anachrononox is really starting to come
together very nicely. I couldn't ask for a better work atmosphere.
We have got some really cool levels going, Zdim's levels all rock 
and Cleaner's stuff is awesome as well.  Can't wait until screen
shots are released so people can get a taste of the hard work 
being done by all.
		Until next time,
		Rocketman
		"I'm not the man they think I am at all!"





Friday Oct. 10 1997	

Hey so this is the opening for my .plan file. Hehe great huh?
So first of all I want to say that all of the people
that are on team Anachronox are outstanding and 
motivating people!!!  Today marks a first for the 
team: A weekly happy hour begins today with all of
us drinking together and getting sloppy.  Well short 
and sweet for the first one, but Anachronox is 
an awsome project to work on. So until next time.	
			Later dudes!!
			Rocketman
(File last updated on Mon 24 Nov 1997 at 13:53)