
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: murphy
Plan modified: Mon Jul 06 17:34:52 1998

july 6 1998

got a really good start on the main FAKK2 character.  worked off of some photos eastman sent in of his wife (julie strain a.k.a. FAKK2).  it's been 
a while since i've modeled something that had to look as specific as this, but i think it's coming along well.

saw "out of sight" this weekend.  awsome movie!  one of the best this year in my oppinion.  go see it.





july 2 1998

just wanted to say amen to mike werckles plan update.  at the expense of sounding preachy: nobody ever laid on their death bed and said, "if only i'd spent a little more time at the office."
your career is part of your life, not the whole of it.  


june 29 1998

closing in on finishing a fluff-art animation.  sort of an animated logo for video, web-sites, etc.  as far as actual game production on my end there are two completed models.  once
i get my hardware lock back (had to send it in to newtek to be reprogrammed) then i hope to get 2 or 3 high LOD characters done per week.  i would like for us to have something cool
to show at ETCS in europe.    


june 27 1998

i just wanted to say (well really i don't want to, but find it necessary) that i'm not the only one to quit ionstorm recently for one reason or another and i'm certainly not the
only one who has had complaints about it. and every time someone makes an analogy between ionstorn and the titanic it doesn't come from me.  it's rather an easy analogy to come up
with considering the whole world has been eating, drinking, sleeping and breathing the titanic for 6 months now.  i only wish i had that kind of influence over people and if i did
i wouldn't use it for that purpose.

on a better note.  well....it's saturday.      

 

june 26 1998

haven't had much too report as my production has been somewhat slowed down waiting for my new system.  got it.  P2 400 with 256 mg ram and a diamond fire gl card.
now i can get crackin'.  



june 23 1998

sliding feet.  my daughter has these sandals that she loves that she has a hard time keeping on her feet, so she slides her feet across the ground instead of taking normal steps.
i say, "sweetie, pick your feet up.  you're driving me insane."  she says, "i can't. my sandals slip off my feet." i've come to accept now that that is just how she is going to walk
as long is she persists on wearing those damn sandals.  there's nothing unrealistic about her when she walks like that, it's just annoying.  

there will be no sliding feet in FAKK2.  and if there are....there'll be sandals on them. 


june 22 1998

came into work today and damn near melted in my chair (the air conditioner was being repaired).  so i went home 1/2 way through the day and spent some time with the family, and now
i'm back trying to stay awake.  modeled some splash stuff for our web site and others to start drawing attention to FAKK2.  should see that stuff soon.  incidentally, i use Lightwave.
and it looks like that will be the 3D software for the project.  

i'm continually impressed with sin.  y'all are going to be very pleased.


june 19 1998

i guess a few things i said in my june 17 plan file was a little more obvious than i had thought.  i've gotten a lot of emails from people reguarding it.
some from people just curious to know what i meant, some from people who have applied at Ion and want to know what's going on there, some from 
publications who are eager to write about a fall, and also some who just thought it was funny....or unfair.  well, it was just a brief remark i made describing how i felt
and to be honest with you i didn't think anyone would notice or care with the slew of plans out there to read.  but to spare me from having to answer
a lot of mail here's a little expansion on that remark.  i certainly haven't made anyone aware for the first time of ego present at Ionstorm.  it's obvious
to everyone how important image is to them.  when i mentioned that i might be leaving to go to Ritual i was told "...but they will never be as high
profile as us."  Ritual is a company with a CGW award and a game still in the top five sellers for it's genre, and who's upcoming title is again
one of the most highly praised and anticipated games in it's genre.  how often they have their picture in the press is no matter to me.

but i guess my remark was kind of a blanket statement.  the truth is most of Ion employees hate that image.  most could care less about that office space and would much 
prefer a nice incentive bonus as opposed to a $5000 couch they never sit on (there's nothing out of line with that -- a game company is only worth as much as it's
employees).  i have close friends at Ion so i'm certainly not wishing the company into the ground so they can be jobless (although i think most of 
the people there would have no problem finding a good job).  all companies have their problems and in my oppinion Ion only has a few, and those few stem from
only a couple of people.  i don't by any means regret working for Ionstorm, it was over-all a great experience.  but i don't think i'll ever regret leaving either.      

i'm nobody significant so take what you will from this.


june 18 1998

well, two characters down as far as modeling goes.  a fat one and a skinny one.  sort of a laurel and hardy in a sick, twisted world.
it's thursday and tonights the night to get the videos before they're all rented out for the weekend.  just thought i'd mention that.
and while you're there, rent "bottle rocket" if you haven't seen it.  watch it man...you'll thank me.



june 17 1998

introduction: 3d modeler/animator on FAKK2.
figured now would be a good time to start the old plan file.  it's great to be here at Ritual.  i can walk  down the hall without 
running in to somebody's ego -- it's amazing.  i feel pretty lucky to be one of the soul survivors of the neon-green titanic.

anyway, getting started on FAKK2. this is going to be an incredible project to work on and judging from the way things are going on design
an incredible game as well.  as for me, i'm modeling characters.  doing the high poly first.  these are some of the coolest characters
i've seen.  joel (concept guy) did a great job creating a unique and consistent look.  after i get a few models out of the way then i may
do a little animating. it for now. 





 





 