*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: murphy
Plan modified: Fri Mar 05 11:40:23 1999

march 5, 1999

i've resorted to only updating my plan when i have something important to say - that's really how it should be anyway.  and now, for the first time this year, 
i have something important to say.  let me start by saying this isn't derogatory or meant to poke fun at anybody.  As we approach E3 we have been trying to think
of a way to draw attention to our booth (aside from the fact that FAKK2 will be impressive enough) and add a bit of fun to the whole bit.
Therefore, we again are recruiting midgets.  This is serious - we want midgets.  If you are or know of any midgets in the LA area with some free time in may, 
please let me know ASAP.  Especially if they can do cartwheels and juggle.  I know before i said if we hired any midgets we wouldn't try to make them do any
silly tricks, but this is a different situation - we'll be PAYING them to do this stuff in this particular instance. the basic job will entail passing out pamphlets 
and other FAKK2/Heavy Metal paraphernelia, but along with that we would like them to do somersaults and handstands and other things that would draw a crowd.
and believe me, it will.  I'm pretty sure people will want to have their picture taken with the midgets too.  with all those women in spandex and people
dressed up like anime characters, a midget photo op is sure to be a refreshing change.  for doing this, any interested midgets will get free hotel stay,
a few nights on the town with us (i swear to god you can count rob and i in on that one), and alot of free t-shirts....although they will probably be
too big.  sleep in them i guess.  please let us know - time is short.   


dec 7, 1998

two things i noticed on the way to work today.  one, NPR news stated that today we celebrate the bombing of pearl harbor.  i just found that strange as people don't
typically "celebrate" having bombs dropped on top of them.  i think the correct word be comemorate.  second, i passed a Mary Kay 18 wheeler on the freeway.  
how many truck drivers do you know that would want to drive a big, PINK truck?  



november 21 1998

only a GENERAL INDUSTRY observance.




november 20 1998

                          RESIGN  IS  LAW.


(only a general industry observance).




november 12 1998

you may have noticed from our web site that we've been  looking for a couple of good people.  i just wanted to say that i'm somewhat partial to
affirmative action, especially as it pertains to midgets.  yes, midgets.  of all the people in this melting pot we call america, midgets hands down 
have the most odds against them (except maybe african-american midgets and gay midgets).  think about it - nobody takes midgets seriously.  
if hitler was a midget, nobody would've listened to him.  clinton would've never been elected if he were a midget.  if johnny cochran were a midget
o.j. would've never picked him for his dream team.  would you allow a midget lawyer to represent you?  for that matter, would you accept a ticket from 
a midget cop?  i would, but i can tell you for damn sure that when i got home the first thing i would tell my wife is that i got a ticket from a midget 
cop.  not a cop - a midget cop.  it's sad and wrong, but it's true.  even in hollywood midgets are the subject of ridicule - despite their contribution 
to the movie industry (would there be a star wars trilogy without midgets? no.  because if you put big men in those ewok suits what would we have?  a 
bunch of wookies, that's what.  and not many women would've seen those movies without the ewoks).  if midgets are even in a movie it's inevitably going 
to be either in a dream sequence or as comedy relief.

so, with that in mind, i would like to invite all midgets with artistic talent to apply here.  you will be welcome. in fact, if there is a tie between you
and somebody of average height - you, the midget, are getting the job without question.  aside from the fact that we understand the frustrations of a midget,
it would work out better for us anyway.  we're running out of space and you take up less, child size office furniture while hard to find is considerably 
cheaper, and we would only need to get you a 15" moniter - these 21" ones would probably blind you.  and i'll just tell you 
now that you won't be asked to do any silly little tricks - like cartwheels and juggling - for the amusement of the rest of us here.  you will be respected here.

  




september 30 1998

after nearly two months, it's time for a plan update.  things are really moving along on FAKK2.  got a whole plethora  of 
characters modeled, and a few animations.  we've also got a few of them skinned and they look awsome.  i recently played the Abes Exodus
demo and was once again blown away.  the world Inhabitants created is every bit as immersive and real as Riven.  again, that's what we 
want to do with FAKK2.  create a unique rich world with the most interesting of characters.  i want people to be so taken in by the world 
that they have a hard time concentrating because they're constantly looking around. or the characters so interesting that you just can't 
shoot them immediately because you want to look at them for a while.  and of course the game play will have to be addicting as well.
anyway, it's an exciting project to be working on.