
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: murphy
Plan modified: Fri Mar 19 11:57:34 1999

my plan, my views, sue me not ritual :)


march19, 1999

isnt that just like andrew collins to post a plan like that?  what can you expect from someone called "pooky"?  I hate his "why can't we all just get along?" attitude!
he sits right next to me and is always saying things like, "hey murf its an honor to work with you" and "dont you feel so lucky to be here?"  im like, no - i'd feel lucky 
if i had a job testing condoms on salma hayek in tahiti for 200K a year andrew, but this ain't bad either ok?"  always the sentimental peacemaker, andrew is.  all i have 
to say to that plan file is that john romero barely graduated from high school and so did i - so we dont all have to act like career people.  bottom line is ritual rules and
everybody else sucks - there are no women here, we are in  a partnership with god, and julis strain is our friend.  so everybody else can eat the peanuts in our shit.






march 8, 1999

as i guess should be expected, my latest plan files have been received with mixed feelings.  many from midgets, dwarves, and little people (i list all three because
i've been told all are correct by one responder or another) who are interested in the job, many from people just trying to set me straight on what's PC, and a few 
hugely insulted people - short and tall alike.  my understanding is that midgets and dwarves are two entirely different things.  One of my favorite movies is called
"Willow" and stars Warwick Davis who is short for genetic reasons but is not a midget.  i was told he was a dwarf.  there are people that i referred to as midgets all
over that movie but if you watch it you will see that there is a distinct difference - at least to my understanding.  in every group of people you will find people
who prefer different titles to describe them.  i mentioned my wife before - she is half black and half white.  many people refer to her as a "mulatto" but she takes
offense to that since it was a term whites created during slavery (when a slave owner raped a female slave and she bore a child, it was called a mulatto).  Her close
friend who is black hates to be referred to as African American - a term considered by many to be very PC - because she says she's never been to Africa.  similarly, along
with the emails i received telling me the correct term is "dwarves" i also received emails from midgets telling me i was correct and that they weren't dwarves.  with that, 
the only thing i can see needing to apologize for is the t-shirt comment.  my father wears a double XL though and i don't think he fins it offensive that our t-shirts won't 
fit him, so likely that there is nothing to apologize for in that comment either.    


march 6, 1999

i've been made aware that the correct term is "dwarves" or "little people" (although the word 'little' in itself is derogatory and, uh....belittling).
i didn't know that midgets was offensive, and yes i do know what PC means....my wife is black and so are my 3 daughters.  actually they're a little more brown 
- that's what i tell my wife anyway.  but i meant what i said, we want a few entertaining little people at our booth.




march 5, 1999

i've resorted to only updating my plan when i have something important to say - that's really how it should be anyway.  and now, for the first time this year, 
i have something important to say.  let me start by saying this isn't derogatory or meant to poke fun at anybody.  As we approach E3 we have been trying to think
of a way to draw attention to our booth (aside from the fact that FAKK2 will be impressive enough) and add a bit of fun to the whole bit.
Therefore, we again are recruiting midgets.  This is serious - we want midgets.  If you are or know of any midgets in the LA area with some free time in may, 
please let me know ASAP.  Especially if they can do cartwheels and juggle.  I know before i said if we hired any midgets we wouldn't try to make them do any
silly tricks, but this is a different situation - we'll be PAYING them to do this stuff in this particular instance. the basic job will entail passing out pamphlets 
and other FAKK2/Heavy Metal paraphernelia, but along with that we would like them to do somersaults and handstands and other things that would draw a crowd.
and believe me, it will.  I'm pretty sure people will want to have their picture taken with the midgets too.  with all those women in spandex and people
dressed up like anime characters, a midget photo op is sure to be a refreshing change.  for doing this, any interested midgets will get free hotel stay,
a few nights on the town with us (i swear to god you can count rob and i in on that one), and alot of free t-shirts....although they will probably be
too big.  sleep in them i guess.  please let us know - time is short.   

   
