*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: murphy
Plan modified: Wed Mar 24 10:35:53 1999

my plan, my views (although they aren't necessarily), sue me not ritual :)

march 24, 1999

ok, i lied.  some dude said he was gonna sodomize me with his gimp if i quit updating so...i weighed the options.  but i think it would only be fair
of me to say this:  if you read plan files to stay current on development trends in the industry - don't read mine.  if i come across some amazing untapped
resource or method related to my job, i'll share it with my co-workers but i'm most certainly not going to share it with everyone in the industry.  
if you read plan files to stay current on a project - don't read mine.  the most exciting developments on our project are not for me to share at my discretion.
if you are the type of person who looks for reasons to be offended - don't read my plan file.  i don't purposely try to offend anybody - and to be honest i would
rather not.  but some people look for offense.  for example:  the whole midget (i.e. little people, dwarves) thing.  of the many, many emails i recieved (probably 30),
only 2 people were expressively offended.  strange thing is, they were both of average height.  which leads me to beleive that these people are quite easily
offended.  i hope they never watch south park.  i think a particularly important element of dignity is not being easily offended and slow to anger.  dignified people
simply don't run around with their heads cut off every time somebody says something they don't agree with.    

and i swear what i said is true.  andrew collins has never seen pulp fiction.         

march 20, 1999

to anyone who ACTUALLY believed my last plan update reflected my true oppinions and feelings let me just say....well, they didn't.
so for everyone who did i would like you to come to my desk for some free prozac and then have you read the following:

* i like andrew collins.  i talk to him all day long.  he is my friend.  he has bad taste in music. he has not seen pulp fiction.
* i have friends at every gaming company in dallas and think they are all great companies. they do not suck.  they are all making cool games.
* i think plan files are stupid which is why mine are always pointless, sarcastic and....stupid.
* i have no idea how john did in school, but in fact it doesn't matter.  i graduated with no problem.
* i was standing over rob when he ammended my plan, i wasn't censored.

now for a typical plan update:

well we are plugging away for E3.  i have been working on.....blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.......while at the doctors office i was surprised to find that i had a huge growth on my left.....
blah, blah, blah.....theres a nice breeze in the air and i think its supposed be about 65 degrees.......the fish was good but i found the sauce to be a bit robust......  
 



march19, 1999

isnt that just like andrew collins to post a plan like that?  what can you expect from someone called "pooky"?  I hate his "why can't we all just get along?" attitude!
he sits right next to me and is always saying things like, "hey murf its an honor to work with you" and "dont you feel so lucky to be here?"  im like, no - i'd feel lucky 
if i had a job testing condoms on salma hayek in tahiti for 200K a year andrew, but this ain't bad either ok?"  always the sentimental peacemaker, andrew is.  all i have 
to say to that plan file is that john romero barely graduated from high school and so did i - so we dont all have to act like career people.  bottom line is ritual rules and
everybody else sucks - there are no women here, we are in  a partnership with god, and julie strain is our friend.  so everybody else can eat the peanuts in our shit.

[This is Robert Atkins, Murphy pulled an all-nighter and just left. I was forced to change this update because he forgot the "I'm just kidding part."]




march 8, 1999

as i guess should be expected, my latest plan files have been received with mixed feelings.  many from midgets, dwarves, and little people (i list all three because
i've been told all are correct by one responder or another) who are interested in the job, many from people just trying to set me straight on what's PC, and a few 
hugely insulted people - short and tall alike.  my understanding is that midgets and dwarves are two entirely different things.  One of my favorite movies is called
"Willow" and stars Warwick Davis who is short for genetic reasons but is not a midget.  i was told he was a dwarf.  there are people that i referred to as midgets all
over that movie but if you watch it you will see that there is a distinct difference - at least to my understanding.  in every group of people you will find people
who prefer different titles to describe them.  i mentioned my wife before - she is half black and half white.  many people refer to her as a "mulatto" but she takes
offense to that since it was a term whites created during slavery (when a slave owner raped a female slave and she bore a child, it was called a mulatto).  Her close
friend who is black hates to be referred to as African American - a term considered by many to be very PC - because she says she's never been to Africa.  similarly, along
with the emails i received telling me the correct term is "dwarves" i also received emails from midgets telling me i was correct and that they weren't dwarves.  with that, 
the only thing i can see needing to apologize for is the t-shirt comment.  my father wears a double XL though and i don't think he fins it offensive that our t-shirts won't 
fit him, so likely that there is nothing to apologize for in that comment either.    


march 6, 1999

i've been made aware that the correct term is "dwarves" or "little people" (although the word 'little' in itself is derogatory and, uh....belittling).
i didn't know that midgets was offensive, and yes i do know what PC means....my wife is black and so are my 3 daughters.  actually they're a little more brown 
- that's what i tell my wife anyway.  but i meant what i said, we want a few entertaining little people at our booth.




march 5, 1999

i've resorted to only updating my plan when i have something important to say - that's really how it should be anyway.  and now, for the first time this year, 
i have something important to say.  let me start by saying this isn't derogatory or meant to poke fun at anybody.  As we approach E3 we have been trying to think
of a way to draw attention to our booth (aside from the fact that FAKK2 will be impressive enough) and add a bit of fun to the whole bit.
Therefore, we again are recruiting midgets.  This is serious - we want midgets.  If you are or know of any midgets in the LA area with some free time in may, 
please let me know ASAP.  Especially if they can do cartwheels and juggle.  I know before i said if we hired any midgets we wouldn't try to make them do any
silly tricks, but this is a different situation - we'll be PAYING them to do this stuff in this particular instance. the basic job will entail passing out pamphlets 
and other FAKK2/Heavy Metal paraphernelia, but along with that we would like them to do somersaults and handstands and other things that would draw a crowd.
and believe me, it will.  I'm pretty sure people will want to have their picture taken with the midgets too.  with all those women in spandex and people
dressed up like anime characters, a midget photo op is sure to be a refreshing change.  for doing this, any interested midgets will get free hotel stay,
a few nights on the town with us (i swear to god you can count rob and i in on that one), and alot of free t-shirts....although they will probably be
too big.  sleep in them i guess.  please let us know - time is short.