
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: murphy
Plan modified: Thu Apr 22 13:34:30 1999

my plan, my views (although they aren't necessarily), sue me not ritual :)


April 22, 1999


I don’t know if anybody watches FOX news but last night they had a discussion about the recent Colorado high school slayings.  One of their guests was a representative of the Media Research Center, a conservative media "watchdog" organization - and I must say that he was just about as smart as your average watchdog, too.  If I could remember his name I would direct him to another media monitor called FAIR (fairness and accuracy in reporting) because he violated both of those concepts - fairness and accuracy.  A comment that of course stuck out in my mind was ".....These idiots making these video games...",   just before they cut to a commercial.  All right....I got something to say:

I am a father of 3 girls - yes sweet little girls - and I make violent video games.   I also listen to Marilyn Manson occasionally and I really love violent movies.  And,I go to church most Sundays (the whole time I’m there I’m thinking about the violent movie my wife and I enjoyed the night before but.....whatever).  I think this all qualifies me to be part of this debate.  Two games that I have really enjoyed lately are Heretic 2 and Myth 2: Soulblighter.  My favorite weapon in Heretic 2 is the blade, and I get great excitement from beheading an opponent and watching the blood spew like old faithful from their neck as they slump to the floor.  In Myth 2 one of my favorite strategies is sending one of my own dwarves with explosive satchels into a crowd of the enemy and then hurling another explosive satchel right at him - which sets off all of his satchels and blows the hell out of everyone in his close vicinity, painting the hillside red.  Then I go home and get on the Playstation and challenge my daughters to a game of Bust-A-Groove.  The basic idea of the game is to score higher than your opponent by dancing with the funky beat and layin’ down some slick moves on the dance floor.  No blood, no violence, not even a dirty look, but it’s an awesome game and I have a great time playing it with them.  But in all honesty - when they kick my ass (and they usually do) and are going through the ritualistic taunting, I would love to have some secret combo move whereby I would whip out a rusty sword and slice off their arms and watch them spin around and bleed like a sprinkler.  That would end their taunting.  And then I would listen to them say their prayers and go to bed.

Point is, my children don’t play Doom, they don’t play Carmaggedon and they don’t play my own companies game, Sin (and neither did enough other people for that matter).  If you are a parent it’s YOUR responsibility to censor your home.  YOU are the one who should decide what comes in and out through your front door and television.  If you are close to your children and pay attention to what’s going on in their lives - then you will know if the have homicidal tendencies.  

COME ON!!!! Don’t try to tell me there were no signs that these kids were somewhat @%$!# in the head!  When I was in my youth and blew up a neighbor’s mailbox with a dry ice bomb, my dad said, "Hey!  Don’t blow shit up!"  When I covered that dummy with catsup and laid it in the middle of the road my parents were aware of my goings on to say, "Are you insane?"  And when I came home from school with a painting I did of a rotting corpse with lightning bolts shooting out of his eyes and a gigantic syringe sticking into his chest they were smart enough to say, "These doctors are going to help you, then you can come back home, son."  They didn’t say, "It’s Pong isn’t it?  You’ve become obsessed with it lately.  What has Atari done to my little boy?"

Now I’m sure these kids probably enjoyed playing Doom for different reasons than you average game player.  They probably did imagine those were jocks running around in that level.  But that is SO SMALL and even insignificant in the whole scheme of things.  What is to blame then?  The parents first and foremost and secondly the punk kids who teased and taunted these kids.  Maybe teens around America need to learn a lesson from this and stop making fun of the little guy, stop being cruel to the poor kid, the fat kid and the slow kid.  In fact, that is probably the first thing to blame in this situation.  

So Mr. "watchdog" how about this for a game concept:   

It’s called STOP MAKING FUN OF ME!  You play the antihero Dexter Plimperton, a.k.a. "Pee-Pee Pants".  You’ve taken the last bit of shit ANY human on this earth could possibly carry around with them, and nobody has seen you coming (despite all of the signs you’ve been demonstrating for months).....  

Maybe that would be a game concept to legitimately blame for an incident such as this.  Because It is real life............

  

   

