Login: paulb          			Name: Paul Butterfield
Directory: /home/paulb              	Shell: /bin/bash
Never logged in.
New mail received Tue Sep 22 14:46 1998 (PDT)
     Unread since Wed Jul  2 16:25 1997 (PDT)
Plan:

5/21/98
Once again my plan file contains very news worthy information (going for front page of Next-Gen this time!). We just put up the Shogo level design contest. Snap, if you donM-^’t enter this one your lame. If you have any problems you can just ask Aaron St. John master level producer. So if you have questions about how to fuck up all your textures or make it so you can walk through walls and fall off the level he is your man.

Gotta run, I got in at 11:30 and have to be JoelM-^’s slave driver today for him to get some work done. (Expect an angry hurtful reply in JoelM-^’s plan file very soon. Something like M-^“Paul is worthless, he couldnM-^’t do shit without meM-^…. Blah blah blahM-^” you know JoelM-^’s usual pathetic try to shank.)

5/20/98
Yea so we saw Godzilla and it fucking sucked. If they would have changed the title to M-^“Not Godzilla but a major Jurassic Park rip offM-^” it would have been one of the best movies of the summer. We decided we wanted to put Israel in a big rubber suit and film a REAL Godzilla movie.

So what do you know, my plan file made it on the front page of BluesNews. Blue=Da_Man. WeM-^’re considering opening an offer for him to join LOK Squad. IM-^’m a bit concerned that all of his raps would be about Quake news. So now that I have reached royalty level, being on front page of BluesNews and all, I expect everyone to read my plan file and put it as your main news item on your page. So yea, now that IM-^’m like crazy mass popular nM-^’ shiot all of the punkz are trying to step to me nM-^’ shiot. I might have to cap em with my 9 or better yet my glock.

I gotz 2 b going nM-^’ shit. We have to be doing some crazy mad box design nM-^’ shit 4 like one of our games that we will be showing at E3. The Shogo team is doing an irc chat with gamers-zone again, we had problems with the last one. So if you want to see whatM-^’s up in #gamers-zone on efnet around 5:00pst that would be cool.

Here is the news that everyone can put on their main news page:
Shogo is going to kick ass at E3. If you are going to at E3 this year, forget about taking pictures with the hired underwear models and stop by and see Shogo running at our booth. It will be running at other booths, showing off other cards and such, but our booth will have Craig Hubbard in a g-string. IM-^’m getting turned on just talking about it. 

5/19/98
Damn I hate seeing my plan file not being updated all the time. I wonder if I should hire someone to do itM-^…? Been working a lot with the brain on half power. One of the best things I did this last week was the newsletter. We where trying out a few different things to see if our servers could handle mass mailings upwards of 10,000 mails. Well I put the loop in the wrong place and on every newsletter it kept adding the body again. The first message was fine, around 2k file size and only one newsletter. The second mail 4k and the body repeated twice. Very soon we where up to sending out half meg mails, thatM-^’s a grip for being all text. JoelM-^’s cough instantly returned when he saw what was happening. So IM-^’m sorry for those few people that got huge newsletters before we stopped the server, it was JoelM-^’s idea anyway. I should have the code all done with the loops in the proper place before the end of the week. We will be sending out newsletters every week with all the hot info weM-^’ve been having. The Shogo site is kicking ass and will continue to do so with all of the previews/interviews we have on the horizon. Spen put up hella pics on the Shogo site for awesome desktop images. We put Ishmeal up on the Blood2 site too. The last build of Shogo looked all messed up until Wes finished worked his magic on the textures. The team is working in the new alpha masking and I grabbed a version right before it was done. I hear all of the team talking how awesome it runs with the beta version of DX6. I could throw in a DX shank here but I wonM-^’t because version 6 seems to kick some major booty. Jason is hating life right now. We have filled up his schedule so he doesnM-^’t even have time for sleep. Stop crying Jace last week you where drinking beer, playing Quake2 and Doom2 at CGDC. The only work you got done was GETTING WORKED by a girl at Quake2. Oh yea we all know, you didnM-^’t know the map and you hadnM-^’t played in some time. I also heard the your mouse was broken and the lag was really bad to a local machine. Translation of the previous sentence: MEMEMMEMEMEM.

Maybe if I talk about the more technical shit in my plan file someone would actually care about reading this. I never see my plan file make a news blurb on VooDoo or Blues. Just think of this news item:
M-^“Paul puts new HR on webpage! Yep being working on de-buggin the new build of Shogo site, version 1.098. With the HR set to a percent I found a big speed increase for the old 2.0 browsers. IM-^’ve moved from working with Dev Studio back to notepad. IM-^’ve found that all the colors in InterDev makes me sick just like riding in the back of SpenM-^’s car.M-^” 

I guess that I need to have a faster car then a Honda to write about in my plan file. I donM-^’t understand, my Honda costs me just as much as some people pay for a Ferrari. Well in proportion of how much I make to other people, we both will be paying off our cars for a good six years. I guess that I could take my Honda down to SIR and race it on import day. I donM-^’t see the point when I could look in Car and Driver and see the 0-60 speed. That would be great, all of the cars could meet at the racetrack but wouldnM-^’t actually race. We could just look to see who has the fastest time. People would ask,M-^”So what was your time this week?M-^” I would have to reply with, M-^“Well I donM-^’t understand, every week I keep getting the same quarter mile give or take a few milliseconds. Next week IM-^’m going to fill her up with some Arco gas and weM-^’ll see if that helps.M-^” Maybe instead of racing Hondas they could have something like Loudest Muffler Contest. Someone would roll up with a 7M-^” exhaust tip and the whole crowd could mumble M-^“M-^…damn!M-^” Homez would roll up to the line in neutral and just start rapping up the rmps. I could just see the whole crowd M-^“raising the roofM-^” at the same time.

We got some beats down for our rap group M-^“L.O.K. Squad.M-^” L.O.K. = Lords of Kirkland incase your where like triznipinM-^’ nM-^’ shit. Hopefully soon weM-^’ll put some of our lyrics to it and make some mp3s for people to listen to.

Got 2 go now, Godzilla tomorrow for the whole Lith crew! 

5/08/98
Well Lith seems a little dead with so many people away at CGDC. We are running a bit slow on the updates for the sites, but we still got an awesome Blood2 weekly update. ItM-^’s starting to rain today, looks like it will be the end of our nice weather run. Aaron and I talked a bit about the direction of most FPS and how they suck to play along with many other game types. I loved Doom2, it was my first PC game that learned to play. I went all the way from just using the keyboard and not knowing what I was doing to playing hours of deathmatch knowing every step on Dm1 with my mouse speed set to 40. IM-^’m not the best Doom2 player in the world, or even at Lith but the point IM-^’m getting at is how the game was so fascinating at the start and allowed myself to grow with as I learned more about the game. Quake almost did the same thing. I had never played 3d games except Fade to Black and Alone in the Dark, not the same as Quake but it was the only thing that came close to it. I also had never played on a network, only one-on-one modem games so playing on the Quake servers where mind blowing. These games and others like Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter, Killer Instinct I had no clue what I was doing when I first played them, but I really liked learning the game and how to play it. Now the problem is when I play games like Quake2, Street Fighter2 EX alpha plus (damn you think they are trying to sound stupid) Starcraft, etcM-^… I already know what to do and how the game should be played. IM-^’m sure any Quake player out there transferred VERY quickly to Quake2. Being 23 and playing games for over 10 years I can see where itM-^’s difficult to create new genre every time you release a title. Maybe thatM-^’s why so many people stop playing the games at this age. The games donM-^’t seem as fun as the time when you first start playing. ItM-^’s just like music. Only the young people like crap like Puff Daddy because everyone else remembers the original song that he ripped off and donM-^’t care for the Puffy and the Family version of the song. 

end bitchinM-^’ and complaining

5/04/98
You would think that people could realize a joke when they see one. When I was thinking of a new Blood2 poll, I thought it was about time to put up a humorous one. Instantly the letters started. At first I wanted to take down the poll and put a new one up, then it got a bit out of control. The forums where being flooded with B2 music posts. Jay thought it would be extra great if a certain group where to take the lead. Even with Hanson having 70% of 7000 votes people still didnM-^’t understand the poll was a joke. I think most of the people just werenM-^’t use to a company doing a joke like that, user sites yes but the official page no. These are the people that donM-^’t know what kind of company Monolith is. The Lithcam at http://www.lith.com/lithcam should give you some kind of idea how crazy we are.

If you have any Riot or Blood 2 news feel free to mail us at webmaster@lith.com so we can post it on our sites.

5/01/98

Look like Hanson is winning on the chosen pollM-^…. heheheh. I donM-^’t know how but it seems like 5000 people all of the sudden REALLY liked them and decided to vote for them. It was really fun watching the loop I made count up to 5000, it only took less then 30 seconds. My opinion of our sqlserver just went up by watching that. Damn the Blood/Chosen forum is still kicking ass, I donM-^’t know of any other forum that has lasted this long and still has so much activity. I didnM-^’t really do much for the web today, mostly just racked up MonolithM-^’s phone bill all day. We did put up the lithnews area on all of our sites, hopefully we can keep all of the people in the know about Lith now. Joel was out sick today, I bet it was due to not having the text done I asked for. Very soon we should be starting up our newsletter, and sending it out on a regular schedule. We kinda got screwed over by a certain program that I wonM-^’t say the name (LISTCASTER) so we decided to do it our own way. So I spent some time formatting the layout, I tried getting around the usual 70 chars wrap but it wasnM-^’t happening. There are just some things that have to be, besides thatM-^’s how everyone else does it so no biggy. The CGDC/E3 crunch is still in full swing here making a lot of people crazy. WhatM-^’s worse than that is some of the people wonM-^’t be going to E3! Bitter, hell yea! I want to go there and play vids all day while I load up my bag oM-^’ free garbage. 

Well I gotz 2 b jumpinM-^’ sum fewls into umm like my gang nM-^’ sheoit so peace out peepz

4/30/98
Well we put up a new update for www.the-chosen.com thanks to Bill. IM-^’ve been working getting interviews, preview and anything else that gets the word out how cool Riot: Mobile Armor is. Spen and Adam look like they have the re-design for riot.lith.com done, so make sure to check out the site around the 11th to see the new changes. ItM-^’s about time that some people start making some Riot sites out there! There is a handful out there now and IM-^’m sure that they will pick up with the new site and all of the info we will be giving out. Not promising anything but if you are thinking about starting up a Riot site drop us a line and weM-^’ll see if we can get you some shots or info to help you start. Everyone around here is getting ready for E3 and the ramp up for our fall game releases. I thought Adam was going to kill everyone when Camille asked him to do yet another box. Also if you are reading MonolithM-^’s plans on questgate or planetquake you probably donM-^’t know that we have a lot more people with plan files then shown. They are both updating our company list but it could take a bit because they are both very busy. Joel bought Might and Magic 6 and Army Men today. I donM-^’t really care for MM but Army Men is pimp. The control is a bit different but maybe I just need some time to get use to it. ItM-^’s great seeing the little green people melt away and get blow to chunks. 

L8R



