Login: paulb          			Name: Paul Butterfield
Plan:

11/5/98
IM-^’m not sure why there is still a WebDoodz section with people under it. It should be WebDood and only have Spen. There have been some awesome PSX games hitting the stores lately. Metal Gear Solid, Xenogears, Tenchu are the best ones right now. I also picked up Grim for the PC but havenM-^’t had any time to play it. I played through the full game of Blood2 yesterday and it was incredible. I think the main reason it was so good was because I hadnM-^’t played the game everyday since it was started. There is a completely different feeling of playing a final product for the first time and playing the final after playing every build for months. It was just like picking the game up at the stores and never playing it before, even if we did develop it. IM-^’m sure there are a lot of people out there who would say, M-^“You work there and donM-^’t play the games!M-^” I usually do and thatM-^’s why it was weird with Blood2. We will be putting out the new B2 demo very soon, the performance issues will be the biggest change. Someone I canM-^’t name gave me a Blood2 box, thanks again Karen, and it looks pimp. I canM-^’t wait to see them on the shelf. Although IM-^’m sure just like Shogo IM-^’ll have to wait a few weeks since they will be sold out everywhere! Aaron and I played some B2 bloodbath, yea I was owning him just like every game we play, and really had some fun on the M-^“FarmM-^”. ItM-^’s a very small map shaped in a circle with some mounds in the center which you can stand in the middle and punish people. If you are quick enough you can get some serious spawn kills. It really bites when you are on the losing side but really getting Howitzer kills over and over has a good feeling.

With Shogo out and Blood2 on itM-^’s way people should really be getting a good taste of our LithTech engine and the quality of games it can help make. The best thing is we will continue to work on the engine since it was designed for upgrades and changes. I donM-^’t know if Mike would like writing a whole new engine every few years. You would probably hear a few mumbles from his office and then BLAM shotgun blast to the head. I canM-^’t wait until we start releasing some info on our next lineup of games. Many people will be blown away expecting a Shogo or Blood2 looking TC. ItM-^’s funny how different just Shogo and Blood2 are. The artwork and atmosphere make the two games feel so different and they really are the same style of game. Well IM-^’m taking off for Chicago in a few hours so IM-^’d better get ready.