
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: paulb
Plan modified: Thu Dec 10 12:45:31 1998


12/10/98
Since many of you have mailed and asked why myself the WebDood has been updating with game and press release info I’d thought I would give out some more info. I’m officially Monolith’s PR guy and handle all of our published games. I haven’t worked on the web for many, many months now. Spen is the single driving force behind all of the sites. I still like to be grouped under the WebDoodz section for the plan files. It’s like family to me. It’s like a cough that you have had for over 2 years and can’t get rid of. Something like HUFF-HUFF-WHEEZ-HACK!

The press release for our new acquired title was delayed by not having a complete logo for it. Shane our artist thinks he needs to sleep or something. It looks like it will be going out today. “Odium” is the name and you’ll have to wait for the press release and teaser site at www.lith.com for more info. 

I saw that we had some problems with our database and the Rage of Mages forum got wiped clean. I don’t think we ever expected all of the posts in the Blood and Shogo forum. We have to invest in some serious hard-drive stock to keep it going. Just think about sites like finger.planetquake.com and finger.warzone.com after a few years of archiving all of the plan file updates. 

We had a small lan party a few weekends ago and played a lot of DM. After playing some HL then moving to Quake2 it takes a bit to get the feel for the game again. Then playing Shogo and moving around faster and more having more deaths in the first few minutes then all of the other games totals was just insane. It’s odd how similar some of the games are but are completely different. After playing all of the games so close together it seems all they have in common were the viewpoint.

So if you made it this far here is the quick version of the schedule:
Odium press release today
Shogo patch Friday
Another acquired title press release next week
Shogo multi-player demo with DM maps and GameSpy support next week
Press release on new LithTech additions next week
…

In continues so I better stop there. All of these are being worked on right now but might move around by a day or so. We just have to make sure everything is proper and get the “OK” from all the people involved. 

