*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: paulb
Plan modified: Wed Dec 16 16:44:53 1998


12/16/98
Well the new Shogo demo with multi-player support went out yesterday and hopefully will give people who don’t already have Shogo a good taste of online play. As soon GameSpot put up the demo I saw the planetshogo.com guys grab it within seconds. I don’t think they ever sleep. The new PCXL has some Shogo DM help in the mag and also some crazy pics taken from our LithCam page at http://www.lith.com/lithcam that they put toward the back of the issue. The LithCam page hasn’t been updated in awhile but its because we are so busy and haven’t be outside lately. Pretty sad but very true when the teams are working to get things done and have time for the holidays.

It’s good to see some of the Shogo and Blood2 mod plans. Since everyone was really wanting to see the Man vs. Mecha in Shogo I was glad someone did it so fast. It’s good to see the mods that are designed for the game rather then all of the old mods we’ve seen before being converted for the new games. Lithwars should be pretty cool. The Shogo people against the Blood2 clan. 

A few mod ideas:
A CTF version that one player is a mecha like the “goalkeeper” restricted to their own flag area and other players on-foot capture the flag and can recover powerups and weapons for the mecha. Wouldn’t it be great to see a group of people carrying weapons back to the base like ants. Maybe they could use it like a big artillery gun too. One guy would be the gunner and the others would have to push around the barrel of the gun to aim it.

I remember a monster mod for Quake that was pretty neat. Making a monster mod for B2 would be great. Some of the guys are huge and would be a great battle for teams. All of the chosen against one human controlled beast. 

I think there should be a red laser sight when people are zoomed in. Not only would it be cool to see the sight going around like Metal Gear Solid but then you would know when a person is trying to pick people off. You would have to see the whole beam of the sight like the tracker beam. Not really true to life but hey what else in the game is? Other weapons like smoke bombs and goggles would be fun. Ok maybe you would be able to see the full beam of the gun sight if you had goggles on. 

I think one of the best maps has to be e2m6 in Quake. Camping in that castle thing was the best. I remember getting over 150 frags (and that took along time in Quake) without even dying. Ever since then my I’ve always love protecting some popular building with teams. On those freaking huge HL maps like bootcamp it’s almost required for heavy fighting. We call it the House of Pain. Seeing dead bodies and blood everywhere is pretty cool. It would almost be like CTF but one team would be the protecting team with an obvious base. The other team would start off in a secret place and try to take over.

Well the Shogo team has been working on a new title and it isn’t Shogo2 like many people think. I’m working on the releases for our other tiles for next year. We have held back on the next LithTech titles so we can show some screenshots and art instead of just announcing the name. The announcement of the LithTech add-on will be should be this week but the next LithTech title details won’t hit until after the New Year. That’s all the brain can work out today. Looks like it will be another late night working here.