Login: ridah          			Name: Ryan Feltrin
Plan:

Ryan Feltrin
<a href="mailto:ridah@frag.com">ridah@frag.com</a>

Technology & AI Programmer, <a href="http://www.xatrix.com/">Xatrix Entertainment</a>

----------------
05-Jul-99


Server Ops: If you are running Kingpin Bagman (Teamplay) on your server,
I recommend turning off team-damage. Just open up the server.cfg to
see how easy it is to do this. This has a significant effect on gameplay.

Also please notify if you are experiencing server crashes. I've noticed a
few servers going up and down today, if this is due to our code, I'd like to
know.


Players: If you are experiencing pauses or slowdowns in Kingpin multiplay, please
report it to me, along with your system specs, and any possible work-around's
you've found to work (this will help me fix it). I've heard of several people
experiencing frequent pauses and other strange occurances during network play.
I've been told changing the connection speed to modem in the player config menu
solves problems for some, let me know if this is/isn't the case for you also.

The network code has been re-worked from the Quake2 engine, to provide
for better performance on low bandwidth (modem) connections. I also worked the
directional lighting such that the server actually calculates which lights are
touching you, and sends them as index pointers through the network stream. The
traffic created by this is negligible (maybe a few bytes per second) and is
all in the interests of keeping the client frame-rates as high as possible.

So as you can see, I am definately interested in making sure Kingpin multiplay
is everything it can and should be. If you are experiencing problems, I'd like
to hear from you.


----------------
04-Jul-99

First, the response to Kingpin Deathmatch and Teamplay (BagMan) has been great.
However, this has caused a severe shortage of servers, so I have been working
feverishly on the linux dedicated server port, which I'm happy to say is ready
for small-scale testing.

So, the first six server ops running Linux glibc 2.1 to come forward willing to test
out this early build, will be put on my short beta testing list. Hopefully this
first stage of testing will go smoothly and if so, the linux server will be just
a few days away.

--

Now, another "possible" solution to the long CD loads (again, I can't test these out,
since none of our machines exhibit the problem). This courtesy of <a href="http://www.rcook.com">Randy Cook</a>.

1) Save your current game in the Save Game menu.

2) Exit Kingpin

3) Put the Kingpin CD in the tray, but leave the tray open.

4) Start Kingpin

5) At the main menu, select "Game" then "Load Game". Do not start game yet.

6) Close the CD tray.

7) Select your saved game, and begin playing.

Hopefully this will help things out, but again, I have no idea if this will work.


----------------
02-Jul-99

Well it turns out not having the CD in the drive doesn't help much at all, since
the CD check will abort the game if the CD isn't there. It does seem as if
the problems are isolated to certain machines, exactly what configuration
is causing it is unknown at this stage. They certainly don't seem to be
surfacing on our machines, which would explain why it slipped through QA.

The best I can offer at this stage, is for anyone experiencing problems,
to report them to Interplay. If enough people come forward, they will give it
a higher priority, and will be more likely to release a work-around, or if
required, ask us to release a patch.

I've been checking out various Kingpin servers the last few days, and managed
to put together a short list of improvements. If you have experienced any
problems with your net play, or noticed anything strange, make sure to
report it to Interplay. If they get enough reports, then we will be
given the all clear to release a patch to fix up any remaining issues.


----------------
01-Jul-99

Problem:
Really long level loads

Possible Solution:
Make sure the CD is not in the drive when you load up Kingpin. I haven't
checked this, but I'm told it eliminates the slow loads. FYI, a normal
level load is between 2 - 10 seconds, depending on size of level.


Problem:
Jittery performance in multi-player

Solutions:
- Options menu -> shadows = AUTO
- Options menu -> fireworks = first tick from left
- Visuals menu -> texture details = left most setting


It's funny how so many people could have the same CD key.


-----------------
30-Jun-99

I've had a few emails regarding tech support type questions for Kingpin.

Firstly, do not email me if it doesn't work, unless you cannot get a working
solution from Interplay tech support. Your Kingpin documentation has the number
for you to call should you have any problems. I don't respond to tech support
questions individually, however if I get enough of the same problem, I may
post solutions here. Make sure to include your CD serial number when emailing,
otherwise it will be deleted, for obvious reasons.

Now, that being said, I've had a few problems from people that seem to be
getting stuck at a light-brown screen on load-up, using TNT/2 cards. This
MAY be due the existance of an old glide2x.dll in your system directory, from
and old 3Dfx installation. Since the game will first try to initialize
the 3Dfx minidriver, this will crash under the above circumstance.

The solution is to delete this file, ONLY if you do not have a 3dfx brand
card in your system.

Another possible solution is to start the game with:

kingpin +gl_driver opengl32

The reason we try the minidriver first, is many have installed the Q3 OpenGL
ICD for 3dfx cards, which are not compatible with Kingpin.


Linux update:

We are chasing down one major crash, otherwise it's looking good.
Hoping to have it out the door by the end of the week. See how we go.



---------------
18-Jun-99

Kingpin is done. Phew. It was a long 13 months, but I'm proud of the result.

Server Ops:

A linux port is currently in the works, and if things go according to plan,
will be available by the time the game hits the stores.

Gamers:

If you've been looking for something new to play on-line lately, let me introduce
you to "Bag Man". It might sound odd, but it's actually very addictive, and
intense. Take CTF, mix it with Mobsters. Stir.

The result, is a game revolving around cash. Both teams have a safe. Somewhere in
the center of the map exists a Cash spawning location (counterfitting machine outlet,
if you must..). The object being, to collect as much cash as possible, then return
to your base and lock it in the safe.

But, as the game progresses, it becomes highly rewarding to steal from the enemy
safe, hence the term "Bag Man". Anyone that has stolen from the enemy safe, has
a big sack over their shoulder, and can be carrying up to $200 in the sack, plus
whatever cash they've put in their pockets (picked up along the way). This makes
them prime targets for the enemy, and highly valuable friends.

At the end of the game, the team with the most Cash wins. Simple as that.

Kingpin ships with THREE BagMan maps, and FIVE deathmatch levels.

Enjoy.