2-10-98
-------
I just finished writing up a "bio" for the upcoming new Ritual WebPage -- look
for this soon -- and I thought of a gaming story I wanted to share.  Give all of
you out there a little more insight into my psychosis.

I am a very competitive person, probably too much so.  I have tried to overcome this
in my later years in life, but it still creeps up every now and again.  However, I do
know that I come by it honestly...here is a little story.

Quick background on my dad here -- until very recently he was a pilot in the Air Force
and he loves to play computer games.  He owns a 3Dfx card and his current game of choice
is Tomb Raider 2.

So, it was the summer before I was to go off to college and I was at home.  My dad was
in the "computer room" playing with a new flight simulation -- Blue Angels.  If you
are not familiar with this particular sim, you fly in formation with the other Blue Angels.
You are given the percentage of error or deviation off of the correct flight pattern and 
this is your ranking.  My dad loves flight sims because he loves to fly -- pretty simple.
He is also as competitive as I am (or vice versa) -- I don't fall far from the tree here.
So, loving games and being a pilot he thinks he can whip my ass (I believe this was a quote).
Being as competitive as I am I pick up the gauntlet and we set out.  We both started out
pretty poorly getting scores ranging between 25% and 50%.  By the end of the evening (a 
long evening) we were in the .95% to 1.25% range and the competition was at a high.  Finally, 
I hit a .28%.  I gloated, mocked, and tormented my father for the next hour while he
tried to best the score.  Finally, about 1:30 I went off to bed.  About 3 hours later I am
jarred awake by my father who proceeds to drag me into the computer room.  There on the
screen was a .25% score.  He had a big smile on his face, turned off the machine,
turned off the light and strolled out the door.

The next morning I got up early and played the entire day while my dad was at work.  I could
not beat the ranking.  So, I did the only natural thing...never played that game again.

Hope you enjoyed the all too true story.

Until next time.........