Login: matthew        			Name: Matthew Allen
Directory: /home/matthew            	Shell: /bin/bash
Never logged in.
No mail.
Plan:
9/29/98

post gold

i've been brought onto to bloodII to help out with some of the ingame design issues (status screen/ menu selection stuff). Kohler ended up doing a wicked cool background illustration that i added some slight modifactions to (cuz schlegel wanted more of a 'necro-techno' feel ... kohler nailed necro ... i added a little techno ... We decided to go with a little more of a 'designy' type of feel, with a san-serif, heavily modified font ... i think its a ton more readable ... but everyone else will be the true judge of that ... Thats currently in the hands of scott pultz and i should be seeing them in game later today ... also completly revamped the in-game status screens/frag bar so it matched the updated menu system. Mr. mattingly has it all but done and im pretty happy with it. Now to just wait for internal reaction to it, and see how it goes. 

I have also been working on one of the audio tracks for the game and Guy is working his mixin' magic on it as we speak. I was completly floored when he asked me to do a track and its been a true labor of love. You learn soooooo much when you have to work within a set way of doing things. It sorta forces you to solve problems you would have just ignored if it was left all up to you. Im pretty happy with the results. Its not eactly what i was hearing in my head ... but in some ways it exceeds the ideas i was originally shooting for. Expect the un-expected ...

and last but not least ... i cant explain to anyone outside of monolith how utterly awesome it is to work in an environment like this ... from the shear adrenelin soaking through craig's wall over to mine to the abilty to work on such a monstrous array of different things ... i get paid to  expand things which i would consider my hobbies, and take them to a new level of competency and coolness. Its this type of atmosphere that drives what we do. You can feel how much fun a game was to make when you play it ... 

awesome

matt   


9/11/98

yes ... crunch time for the shogo team
but i dont have it 1/2 as bad as alot of my teamates

i am currently trying to figure out softimages particle editor so i can drop in some animated sprites for some of the neglected weapon FX ... 

i know alot of the QA guys have been telling you all how awesome the game is ... and im gettin there myself .. ive been able to run it on my 133 with a vodoo2 .. deathmatching against some of 'em.. skills are rustier than some piece of metal thats been left in the rain too long ... but man it looks good ... i really think that our weapons just fell right ... ther's still some balancing stuff ... but its so minor i doubt it will be messed with ... 

now the hard part really starts[in my eyes at least] ... we are about to send out what many of us have been working on for over 2 years ... for alot of us its our first game and so with that comes some anxiety as to how it will be accepted ... how wil lit run on everyones machine ... will it catch on .. will it be anime enough .. will it be fps enough ... will we get shit for mistakes not caught ... often its difficult for me to watch people play who havent before ... the cringe whenever they get popped as soon as they walk into the room (is the AI too tough?) the embarressed blush is the framerate jiggles ... etc etc

i know ive been told by others here that it will go away as soon as its out and it starts to get reviews and that ive watched the game too long to know how cool iot will be to the people who see it for the first time and that im too critical of small things  .. but its that wait i think that will get me more that any crunch time around ..

m.


7/23/98

all work and no play make jack a dull boy


new cd's:

The knights who say dot
  crazy new school electro compilation on the dot label ... vocoders rule ... at times gets a little too drill n' bassy but at other times its pure electro driven funk-ified bliss

Cabaret Voltaire: BBC recordings 84-86
  what can i say? If you dont know who these guys are then you are missing out on a peice of your electronic music history ... CV are the godfathers of what most people call electronic music (kraftwerk being the actual grandparents if you continue the familial thinking) ... This disk covers what alot of folks would consider thier most accesible time period.

cEvin Key: Music for cats
  The man behind download and skinny puppy (well for the most part) has put together a whole bunch of wierd studio tracks spanning a 4 year period. The music is eerily beautiful and less harsh than what you would expect ... detractions on this disk include way too much genisis p orridge (any is too much in my book) and not enough rythmic fun .. but other than that its quite good

the first basic channel compilation
  crazy grungy dirt filled techno from a bunch of german guys ... no idea what the tracklist is and the cd case makes it difficult to actually get the disk out ... but thats half the fun

boards of canada: music has a right to children
  i first heard these guys on the skampler. They have this quirky sense of melody and a big thing about crunchy rythm ... all together an awesome disk ... many of the songs seem to have melodies ripped outta some tv shows i remeber as a kid ... but fucked with ... i dont know its weird to put my finger on it .. but i love this disk

plug reaserach and development
  another compilation whose tracklisting is made completly illegible by a werid ass font ... the music ranges from some wicked ass digital dub to some very minimal ambi