Login: zanshin        			Name: Pointy Moment
Directory: /home/zanshin            	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Wed Oct 22 03:52 (PDT) on ttyp2 from zanshin2:0.0
   24 minutes 5 seconds idle
On since Wed Oct 22 04:45 (PDT) on ttyp4 from zanshin2:0.0
   59 minutes 11 seconds idle
Last login Wed Oct 22 04:44 (PDT) on ttyp3 from zanshin2
No mail.
Plan:
I am completely aghast at the level of intelligence of some of the people
that send me email lately. 

If these emails are any indication, the future of humanity is slack-jawed
drooling.  It seems that people are allergic to thinking for themselves.
The number of people who can't bother to READ, and want pre-digested
opinions handed to them in bite-size chunks so their hummingbird-on-crack
attention spans don't get overwhelmed. 

It's called a fucking FAQ, people. CLICK ON IT. 

Also, your reading comprehension skills are not my problem.  One would
think if you could navigate a web site well enough to find the email link,
you could bother to READ the list of things I don't want to answer.  For
every one of you who sends me a "Why doesn't GLQUake work with my virge",
it makes me less interested in reading the truly legitimate questions. 

And YES, I know some of you don't get the same fps as me or your fucking
friend with exactly the same hardware.  OH MY FUCKING GOD, THE WORLD IS
GOING TO END IF YOU DON'T GET 3 MORE GOD DAMNED FPS!!!

This rant was inspired by the fact that I put an early release version of
my chart up, which was intended to reduce the amount of email I get from
people who can't be bothered to read the FAQ or don't comprehend that
boards with the same chipset pretty much do the same thing, and what
happens? My stupid email goes from 60 or so a day to over 200 a day. 

This chart is still a good idea, and I remain committed to giving you my
best on what cards will play GLQuake, and how to get the most out of
them.. But I have a job and a life and don't have hours to spend
hand-holding.  I will try to make sure I provide a good resource, but you
know what?  I don't have time to answer each and every email you send me.
A lot go in the bit-bucket, and if you want to think I'm not nice.. Go
start a web page, and watch it get popular and see how you like the email
you get. 

And oh, by the way.. I have a stalker now. 

She has graduated from sending me psychotic email to calling my answering
machine at home and leaving psychotic messages. 

I bought a caller id box.  

I am going to assume because she's a she that she isn't going to try and
rape me or anything, but it's really not funny. 

So "Erin" if you're reading this.. Get yourself to a therapist.  I only
date maginally wacky chicks.  Not complete lunatics. 

Z out.