Login: zanshin        			Name: Pointy Moment
Directory: /home/zanshin            	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Mon Dec  8 10:41 (PDT) on tty2    3 minutes 10 seconds idle
     (messages off)
On since Mon Dec  8 15:35 (PDT) on ttyp1 from zanshin2:0.0
   4 minutes 7 seconds idle
     (messages off)
Last login Mon Dec  8 15:35 (PDT) on ttyp0 from zanshin2
No mail.
Plan:
I don't care how you rationalize it; "try before you buy" or "I am going
to buy it anyway" or "I don't have the money"... 

Anyone who pirates Quake2 deserves to be assraped by a Strogg wearing a
razorblade strap-on.  Not only is piracy illegal and unethical, but it's
the sort of juvenile selfishness that makes programmers want to just give
up and and say "fuck you" to the public. 

On id's behalf, I say FUCK YOU to all the morons downloading Quake 2 at
the moment.  Hey, you can afford crack and Chumbawuumba CDs, why can't you
rip off your Grandma to buy Quake2?

Is it because in your pathetic excuse for a brain you feel ENTITLED to an
early release?  Do you also cut into lines at the DMV? (I beat the living
crap out of someone who tried that once. The DMV makes me testy.)

Is your attention span so short that you can't stand waiting 2 or 3 days?  

WHAT THE FUCK IS YOUR PROBLEM?  GET A JOB AND A HAIRCUT AND STOP USING
DAD'D POOTAH ALL NIGHT FOR YOUR LAME LITTLE WAREZING YOU INGRATES!!

Seriously.  Life is about contributing.  If you can't contribute and take
responsibility for yourself, you don't DESERVE shit like Quake 2.  

The good news is that in life, things have a way of coming back to you.
You WILL be forced to learn this lesson.  

And you fucking should feel fucking bad right now.  I feel no mercy for
shits like you.  I wish there was some way to encode something into Quake2
which would blow up your monitor if you didn't have a legitimate copy.  

Think you're cool while you can.  You WILL suffer eventually. 

And id's demons will meet you in hell, you little warezing fucks. (By the
way, there is a known correlation between warezing and impotence.)

Z out.