Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: John Scott
Email: jscott@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: ???
Last Updated: 02/10/1998 13:56:28 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nick: Slaine
Project: X

10/2/98

I was looking at the screenshots for Unreal in the latest mags, and to me (and 3 graphic artists)
it looks like the lens flare effects were added on to the screenshots after they were taken from
the game. Everyone who has seen the engine in action has said "awesome" or "kickass" or similar
terms of wonderment, so why do they have to touch up the screenshots ? I see on Blues News that
Romero has licensed the engine, which is another stamp of approval if ever I saw one. It waits
to be seen whether it can deliver a good game after all this hype and time. As a rule of thumb,
don`t believe anything you read or any screenshot you see, until the game is beta.

I went to see American Werewolf in Paris the other night. As was to be expected, not a patch on
the original, and why did they have to give it a happy ending ? By all accounts they all should have
died horribly. The premise that the werewolves weren`t all bad because they only killed the 
"scum of the earth" was a pretty good twist, and the fact that this included Americans I found
hilariously funny ! (being a Brit myself). Overall, pretty good and very funny.

9/2/98

Yeah !! I finally been given the go ahead to say that Necrodome PSX has been canned. It will never
be finished and hence never released. It happened about an hour after my finger update of 6/1/98, 
but it has taken this long for the legal boys to get the paperwork up to date. Sorry about not
letting everyone know sooner. It`s a bit of a shame really, it was a pretty good game, but I think
it missed its release window ie. was looking dated before it was released. If Raven had got me in
on the project when the PSX version was started, then things could have been different.

People have asked me "What is it like having 7 months of your creative hard work just thrown away ?".
I think it`s a feeling best described as having lots of foreplay but then no orgasm.......

Also, I now get to play with an existing engine on the PC, which, I assure you, is much more fun !!
Unfortunately, due to orders from the powers that be, I am not allowed to say anything on the project
I have been working on for the past month :( We`ve all just got to wait for the official press
release.

9/2/98

I went to a local club on saturday night and danced the night away to some kickin insdustrial
tracks :)....however, while I was there, I picked up a flyer for, and I quote, a "Travelling
Interactive Bondage Showcase". Not my kind of thing, so I`ve passed on the details for Kenn 
and Tom. Unfortunately, they don`t know what to wear, and are too shy to ask for ideas themselves.
So, if you have any suitable clothing concepts, email them to those two, k ?

Album for today - Pretty Hate Machine by Nine Inch Nails
