Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: John Scott
Email: jscott@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 06/13/1998 21:06:24 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nick: Pagan
Project: Heretic 2

Disclaimer - The opinions expressed herein are that of Raven Software
             (which will come as a big surprise to them)

13/6/98

No work today...it is saturday after all.

I just took part in Gamecenters overrated editorial
(http://www.gamecenter.com/Features/Exclusives/Overrated/)
A most interesting read it was too, but I must disagree
with their attitude towards some of the latest harware.
As soon as we can presume that the game player has MMX
or AGP, these features will make a huge difference to 
games. Until that time, we cannot afford special coding,
design and testing for minimal gain.

MMX could speed up 32 bit software rendering by a factor
of at least 2, and speed up sound mixing by a similar 
amount. This is due to the extra instructions. We may
do some basic coding for these particular examples in
Heretic 2. 

AGP will vastly increase the amount of texture memory
available. Currently, we have to keep it to 2mb of
textures per view area for voodoo for optimal performance.
If we had, for example, 10Mb of textures in one view area,
AGP cards would handle in fine, while most 3d cards would
grind to a slide show. (before anyone emails me, this is
an over simplified example).

No matter how much scalability we put into a game, it 
still has to run on our base machine, which is currently
a P133 Non MMX with a gl card or a P166 Non MMX without
a gl card (Note: these specs are what we are currently
working towards and may change). 

World Cup fever descends on the Brits at Raven ! The 
rest of Raven doesn`t even know the world cup is on...

Song for today - The Only Living Boy in New Cross by
Carter USM.

12/6/98

Added in a glide version printout for those silly ppl
not using 2.43 or more......

Experimented with a few versions of the firewall, still
not looking good enough. Fire, due to its nature, does
not move. So making a moving fire wall is not quite as
easy as it sounds. I`m using Josh`s new physics model to
implement it too, and we`ve had several "discussions" over
that today :) Overall, the system is vastly superior, much
cleaner to code and less resource intensive. It`s much easier
to debug too......

The PowerVR seems to work with our game, which surprised me
no end. The major problems are fog doesn`t seem to work and
the 95 driver seems quite unstable. Maybe it`s because we`re
abusing gl :)

I have started playing the Hexen 2 Mission Pack tother day,
and it`s top ! I hear you saying "Well a Raven employee is
bound to say that, coz if he said it was shit he would get the
sack". Partially true, if I thought it was shite, I would
keep my mouth shut (fingers tied?). A whole load of playability
problems have been sorted in the MP over the original H2 and 
the game runs a whole lot smoother on my home system (p166MMX).
I just really got into it, had that "gotta finish just one
more level" feeling all thruout. I would recommend checking
it out.

Off to see the Truman show now, I`ve heard lots of good things
about it.

Song for today - Volcane(Mr Jealousy has returned) by Fields 
of the Nephilim.

10/6/98

More scheduling.....and meetings :(

Prototyped the morph spell - it works and is net friendly -
looks a bag tho. Firewall tomorrow, rapidly followed by the
mace balls...should be a lot of fun !

Tidied up the texture uploading and choice of filtering.

Improved qdata so as to remove the chance of holes
appearing in textures (always a bad thing).

ICQ RIP now that AOL has taken over :(

9/6/98

Got the real time gamma correction in now. It actually changes
as you move the slider. No more of that vid_restart crap !
We only have 2 texture formats now, which results in much
cleaner code, much faster loading and much less chance of 
things screwing up in that department. I also made it so it
only does a vid_restart should the settings have changed.

I`ll be coding some weapons very soon...so need to get my
'pretty fx' cap on....any ideas greatly appreciated....
I find it very difficult to come up with an original effect
that looks top, doesn`t bog the network to a halt and doesn`t
require a p2/400 to run !

Eric asked me how to insult a Brit today...he thought "limey"
was pretty offensive. Anyway, being called "french" is what
I find most utterly insulting...be warned !! :)

Album for today - Flags of Revolution by Love Like Blood

4/6/98

Rewrote the sprite management system and pulled a lot of code
out into prepocessing. This significantly reduced the lag when
first firing a weapon. On to the pics and env directories next
week, although they won`t need pre mipmapping obviously.

After this has been sorted, I`ll seriously improve the gamma
correction code...and hopefully make it real time. Also, I`ll
extra pre gamma down all the textures should you be using a
Voodoo card, as they have a super bright output.

I`ve been helping Jake shave ticks off the model renderers the
past couple of days. We`ve knocked off about 20% to the id routines
(this was possible as the id routines were designed for a paletted
game, not a true colour game). It`s got to the point where both
our brains hurt, and we`re not gaining much for an immense amount
of effort. Time to move on.

I read sCarys report on Heretic 2 (http://scary.vrgames.net).
Thanx man !!! The only thing is, we are currently trying to 
support software. We are, unfortunately, not a hardware only
game :(

Heretic2 seems to work quite well on a FireGL1000, although not
perfectly. I`m talking to the guys to sort things out.

The alpha Thriller 3d driver is very alpha, and I`ve had serious
stability problems in 95, but it seems quite stable in NT. The
colours look very rich though, and the performance is awesome !

I also tried the Intel 740 card, but there are currently no 95
gl drivers for it, so no support at the moment.

Off to visit some friends in MI this weekend, should be good for
a laugh ! As I worked Memorial day, I`m getting tomorrow off
instead.

29/5/98

Still no news from the boys at E3 :( Just an email and an
online article...to quote (http://www.avault.com/e3-1998/3dthurs.asp)

"There was the expected parade Quake-engine titles, and they all 
looked good, though I must confess the implementation that impressed
me most was Heretic II, by Raven Software. Whatever concerns you
have about this game being a slow-moving cliffhanger (an intentional
wink to you Lara Croft fans) can be laid to rest. Without a doubt,
this will be Raven's finest hour, with fast-paced action, spectacular
spell effects, and detailed character animation. While our coverage
of this game will expand in the near future, let me mention the one
thing that impressed me the most aside from the keen, though familiar,
3D technology: the player character animation. Your player is
incredibly quick and agile, and capable of performing a host of
back-breaking acrobatics. In fact, after watching the game for a few
moments, I jokingly asked project administrator Dan Freed if there was
anything the character was incapable of doing. Expect streamlined
game design that keeps the action moving, the coolest puzzle design
in a 3D game to date, and the Quake II engine used to its fullest
graphical glory."

Reported by: David Laprad 

This cheers us all up no end :)

Started work on another weapon today. What I`m probably going to
do is make them all work well first, be really network friendly, 
then make them look pretty at some later date. While developing
the gameplay, who cares what they look like ?

James got H3d glasses working with Heretic2 today, it was just
a matter of getting the right combination of OS, Glide and
3dfxgl...which is more difficult than you might think. However,
they work EXTREMELY well ! I loved the effect they gave. I will
be buying some very soon....

Jake is still busy with software, incorporating all the optimizations
from the 32bit surface cacher that did the other day into the 16bit
cacher. He`ll be moving onto the renderers next week now...
He`s doing an excellent job, but the framerate still isn`t going to
be a patch on the hardware accelerated version. My advice is get a
Voodoo if you want to see Heretic 2 in its full glory.

We had a grill out for lunch today, brats, beer and volleyball.
Josh W and I tried a little football (or soccer as you yanks
call it), but after a couple of Berghoffs and brats, combined
with 90F sunshine...it just wasn`t going to happen :)