Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: John Scott
Email: jscott@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 12/11/1998 19:12:28 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nick: Pagan
Project: Soldier of Fortune

Disclaimer - The opinions expressed herein are personal and
in no way represent that of Raven Software or Activision.

11/12

Nathan and Steve converted all of SoF to C++ yesterday,
this should help us with bug hunting in the future ;)

I`ve put in ARB Multitexturing unto SoF today, so the
TNT and ATI users should see a very pleasant speedup.

I`m working with Matrox and there ICD at the moment,
it is very functional, but there are some performance
issues. I would stick with the g200gl d3d wrapper for
the moment.

The new 3dfx ICD doesn`t seem to work at all with
Heretic2 on my SLI setup, this requires further
investigation. If I finish my christmas shopping early
tomorrow, I might pop in and do some more work on it.

Courtesy of Raven, most of us have just been to see 
Insurrection at the local cinema (for various reasons
*grin*). I liked the film a lot, the special effects
were excellent, the story was pretty good and it was
told well, and there was quite a bit of humour in 
there. The only major downpoint was the amount of cheese
slipped in by Mr Frakes. Picard`s woman and Data`s childhood
should have just been cut completely, or at the very least
shortened to the point where it wasn`t boring. You`ll see
what I mean if you go to the movie.

I would recommend this movie, especially in a THX theatre.

10/12 

There are a quite a few of us at Raven that read the forums
at http://forums.hereticii.com/. Any civil question posted
there is normally answered within one working day, unless
there is no answer, or we don`t know the answer :(

A word to the unfortunate Germans out there. Your censors
forced us to lock the blood_level to zero or we would have
been banned :( What Heretic 2 does is check the Windows 95
language for "German(standard)" and if it is, forces the 
blood level to very boring mode. So if you go to Regional
Settings in the control panel, and change your language to
anything else (including the other German languages),
and restart your computer, when you next run Heretic 2 you
will have gained a violence level slider in the options menu.

Now everyone can enjoy Heretic2 in its full glory !!!!

9/12

Thanks for all the offers for doing Linux ports :) I`m afraid
I don`t have time to answer many, but most of my questions have
been cleared up. Apologies for not replying...

As a few people were asking this....
Heretic 2 uses DirectDraw to create the software rendering 
screen, elements of DirectSound for the sound mixing (or
reverts to the wav device under NT) and DirectInput for the
joysticks. In short, we don`t use much of DirectX at all.
All of the heavy lifting is done in our code or OpenGL.

A couple of clarifications on yesterdays plan....

1. This is to get things working. The ideal, optimal (but very
space hungry) way is to define your own. A minimum of 100MB and
a max of 500MB should be fine. Putting this file in its own
partition with no other files may gain a little speed too. 
However, my suggestion is if you are in any doubt as to the
meaning of what a swapfile is, just let Windows handle it :)

4. I am, of course, referring to the toolkit.



8/12

I`ve moved on to Soldier now.. but I`m still trying to help out
with Heretic2 support whenever I can :) I can help with video 
cards, compiling the tools and a few other generic things. I 
cannot help with design probs, load save issues or coop issues
(because I didn`t code any of these).

All seems to be going pretty smoothly with the Heretic 2 release,
not too many problems are being reported, but of the ones that are,
here are some common tips to help you out....

1. Always let Windows handle your virtual memory and make sure you
have at least 100Mb hard disk space free (200Mb recommended). Hr2
uses a lot of virtual memory when it is loading. Jake & Co will 
likely be addressing this for the EP.

2. If your video card doesn`t work, try the latest reference
drivers for your card. eg if your Diamond Monster II shows 
problems, download the latest drivers from 3dfx. The problem is
the actual chip used on the card is sometimes well hidden. 

3. Even if you have a p2/450 with a Riva TNT, you won`t 
necessarily get a low ping in a net game. Ping is to do
with the quality of your net connection, modem speed and
number of hops to the server.

4. We use VC6 at Raven to compile the game. Apparently, you
can compile with VC5 (with VS SP3), but this is not recommended.
The documentation is wrong in this case. If requested, I`ll
place some documentation up somewhere on some "how to" stuff. 
As I`ve been working on the stuff for 11 months , it all seems
perfectly straightforward to me, so you`ll have to suggest 
what you want me to publish info on :)

5. There is a problem with the joystick code. Certain joysticks
were broken in the demo, unfortunately the fix broke something 
else :( We are working on a fix for this for the 10 or so
joystick users. This will be fixed in the EP at the latest.

6. "unauthorised access" error in the demo. We accidentally 
left in some anti piracy code for the demo (ooops). You need
to download a new dll from the Activision site.

7. Linux version. We are all Windows peeps here at Raven. We
are extremely unlikely to do one, although subcontracting this
out may be an option. What is involved in doing a Linux port ?
All our servers are NT based, so testing would be another 
problem.

1/12

Heretic 2 retail support..
http://www2.ravensoft.com/heretic2

Heretic 2 developer support..
http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/rjohnson/heretic2/wwwboard/wwwboard.html

Some video card timings for Heretic 2 -

http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jscott/timings.htm
