Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: John Scott
Email: jscott@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 04/26/1999 22:29:22 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nick: Pagan
Project: Soldier of Fortune

Disclaimer - The opinions expressed herein are personal and
in no way represent that of Raven Software or Activision.

27/4

Just had to share the fact the Matrix soundtrack is awesome!
It has also put some names to excellent tunes for me, namely
Rob Zombie and Rammstein.

26/4

Warning : Completely game unrelated finger update.

I went to see Marilyn Manson on Saturday night, and it was
awesome! The music was excellent, it was a real 'show' and
refreshingly loud too. Lots of loud bangs, fake blood and
fireworks going off everywhere :) The were only two downers 
to night. 1. Distinct lack of beer. There was a bar that
sold bud or bud lite but I had to wash that swill down later
with some real beer. 2. Security, they were pushing everyone
out before I even had time to catch my breath. I didn't have
time to find my friends or scout out any of the talent. A
quiet 15 mins to compose ourselves would have been great. 
On the whole, a thoroughly recommended show.

On a related note, I was put off initially by Mansons 
'shock rock' image, anybody with so much hype can't have 
any content. However, there is no escaping the fact that
Mechanical Animals and Antichrist Superstar are 2 damn fine
albums with some excellent tunes.

13/4 (part the second)

I received a lot of emails on this subject. The code is indented
as I edit it, but the finger readers seem to strip out the tabs. The issue I was trying to raise was having the {'s misaligned.

The votes are as follows -
3 - 1 in favour of aligning
6 - 1 if you don't count emails ending in .edu
(a late vote threw out these numbers somewhat - Michael!)

Some quotes for -

You are so fucking right....
Couldn't agree more
I feel your pain.......
AMEN !!!

A quote against -

You're fighting K&R there, boy

It would seem that Universities teach it the misaligned way
because that is the way K+R has it. K+R rationalisation is that
you can see more code on screen on a 25 line monitor......

My rationalisation is that it makes it a lot easier to see
where your loops and conditions begin and end. It makes it more 
difficult to make a typo error. This is why I'll (and the rest
of Raven) will stick to this method. 

I know my editor has brace matching, but I shouldn't need 
to use it. If the braces are aligned, then I don't need to use
it. Less work, less bugs, more time writing new code.

I did however get many leads on programs to rebrace code. I haven't
tried any of these out tho....maybe one day.

http://www.slickedit.com
http://www.snap.com/download/item/pc/0,22,home-35998,501000.html
http://www.geocities.com/~starkville/main.html

13/4

Okie..pet peeve time (after looking at some *nix research
code). People who format their code -

if(condition) {
	Function();
	}

rather than -

if(condition)
{
	Function();
}

- should be tarred, feathered, hung, drawn, quartered,
disembowelled, shot and then stabbed for good measure.
Nested loops/conditions of this ilk make it extremely
difficult to work out which if/for refers to which bit
of code. As you have probably guessed, I've just spent
a good long time fixing a bug that wouldn't have 
occurred if the code was laid out in a reasonable fashion.

/me ponders writing a utility to fix such code.


26/3

I