Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: John Scott
Email: jscott@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 08/10/1999 13:42:44 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nick: Pagan
Project: Soldier of Fortune

Disclaimer - The opinions expressed herein are personal and
in no way represent that of Raven Software or Activision.

10/8

Some days it just isn't worth chewing through the straps.

3/8

* Removed duplicate files from filebox. Cleaned up the code
  for fileboxes.
* Crosshair not drawn in cinematic sequences or monitor view.
* Upped bytedir direction table to 250 entries.
* Added filerequester type object to menus (still tacky)
* DirectSound works under NT.
* Added a gamma image to the video menu. We should have
  consistently lit levels now.

To make DS friendly enough to the system that NT likes it,
the output is locked to 22k/8bit. I left in the 98 16bit
stuff, but now it falls back to a more friendly DS rather
than the squalid wave device. Sound effects appear in the
same timezone as they were created in NT now :) EAX and A3d
should work now too.

We are all busy making a demo for QuakeCon and GenCon, its
pretty hectic around here. Should all be sorted by tomorrow
tho :)

You have become better at typing! (12)

1/8

* Fixed "Failed command checksum" bug
* Fixed alpha surfaces in bmodels not being rendered
  properly (still not perfect - but should be good
  enough) and not moving.
* Sorted alpha surfaces, quads and alpha bmodels 
  properly.
* Made undulating surfaces shade smoothly
* Added screenshots to savegames.
* Routinified lightmap creation code and surface 
  rendering - multitexture used in more situations now.
* Used sorted texture chains if multitexture available
  to reduce texture thrashing (previously it only 
  rendered by texture if there was no multitexture
  available).
* Went out and got completely blasted Saturday night.

Just a note to say that The Blair Witch Project is
bleeding awesome - thoroughly recommended.

I'm also completely hooked on the Sequencer CD by
Covenant.

28/7

Our finger server went down over the weekend so which
is why it took so long for our fingers to get out.

I was dreading the hate mail from my previous update
but so far it hasn't been too bad ;)

I got a G400 yesterday and they are damn quick. Drivers
seem pretty stable at the moment too, I'll be using
it for a couple of weeks and I'll let you know how 
it goes. The performance is definitely up there with
the big boys - if not better.

I have been using the Savage4 for the previous month
with no problems, it seems a good solid reliable card,
and with multitexture enabled, the performance is 
definitely very reasonable.

Apologies for not getting back to some people re
the Heretic2 model format, but I just can't seem to 
find any time. I started a FAQ over the weekend but
I've no idea when or whether it will be finished.

Some new choons which may interest people with the
same whacked out musical taste as I.

Covenant: Sequencer - excellent
KMFDM: Adios - not as good as Symbols
NIN: TDTWWA - ok
Rammstein: Sehnsucht - awesome
Orgy: Candyass - top
Depeche Mode: Singles 86-98 - actually very good
Rob Zombie: Hellbilly Deluxe - good
Matrix OST - excellent

When I was a lad, DM were the equivalent of the
Backstreet Boys, I had to overcome that huge stigma
before buying an album of theirs. It is very good
though :)

You have become better at musical appreciation! (68)

23/7

The IRC chat the other night was a lot of fun, thanks
for so many people turning up! There were a few
common questions that I'll give the official line
here - please bear in mind that this is the official
line and not necessarily my opinion.

1. Will there be a Linux port ?
There are no plans at the moment, however, we
realise that this will increase the number of
servers out there and will be a big support for 
the Win32 users. It all really depends on how
many units are sold, we are not in the fortunate
position of being able to support an OS because
it would be cool to do so.

2. Will the tools be on the CD?
No. They will be available for download soon
after we go gold. It is just one thing we don't
need to deal with during the stress of getting a
game finished. There isn't enough space on the CD
either :) This also gives us chance to write 
help files and make demo maps and sample models.

3. Will it be as violent as people say it is ?
Yes. There will be a strong parental lock option,
however, so there is an option to turn off the gore
and sanitise the violence. We have made the game
for adults and there will be a warning on the box.

22/7

A bit of self pimpage....

Nathan and I will be doing an IRC interview this
evening at 7pm CST (thats 1am GMT) on irc.3dnet.net
in #gamedesign. Any questions you have about Raven
or SoF, bring them along......

 