Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: John Scott
Email: jscott@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 03/01/2000 16:45:26 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nick: Pagan
Project: Soldier of Fortune

Disclaimer - The opinions expressed herein are personal and
in no way represent that of Raven Software or Activision.

1/3

All is looking damn fine with SoF, we are just waiting for
the various QAs around the world to get back to us. The main
issues we have are with french and German words being much
longer than their English (or even American) counterparts.

We've been doing the very aptly named crunch time for the
last couple of months and the signs are starting to show. 
You can only live so long on a diet based solely on nicotene, 
caffiene and pizza :)

However, things are starting to wind down a little our end. 
Hopefully, I can go home before 4am tonight!

The lawyers are handling my visa renewal at moment. All should
be fine, but it is still a very worrying time for me. 

18/2

http://www.planetsoldieroffortune.com/

Enjoy!

7/2

Back in the land of the living! I can take the 'Plague'
sign off my door now :)

Here's a quick rundown of the Video Settings menu which
may be of some interest.

Video Driver -
Either Default OpenGL or 3DFx OpenGL. Voodoo3s use Default
OpenGL as they are 2d/3d combo card. 

Resolution -
I don't think I'll go over this one :)

Fullscreen -
Not an option you get with V1, V2 or Rush cards as they
only run fullscreen without special drivers. If you try and
run a 16 bit only card on a 32 bit desktop, then it will
not work.

Bitdepth -
Auto, 16 or 32. Auto picks the desktop display depth and
uses that if it can, otherwise defaults back to 16 bit.
Several cards (I740s, Riva128s and all 3dfx cards) cannot
handle 32 bit rendering and will default back to 16 bit
if you try it.

Alternate Simple Textures -
These are more generic textures used in place of the fluff
type textures. For example, the graffiti in the subway level
will change to the texture of the wall it is on if this
feature is enabled. This results in the levels not looking
as pretty but significantly less texture memory is used.

Texture Quality -
This is the mip value of the world textures. Lowering this
setting will blur the textures but use much less texture
memory. It is a speed vs looks tradeoff.

Skin Texture Quality -
As above, but for Ghoul textures.

Texture Format (Translucent Texture Format) -
The internal formats used by OpenGL to store texture data.
As always it is a tradeoff between memory, quality and 
performance.
Low - This is 1 byte per texel (R3G3B2 and RGBA2). This can
look spectacularly ugly on some cards, but not too bad on
some others. 
Medium - a short per texel (R5G6B5 and RGBA4). These are regular
16 bit textures - average memory usage, good quality and all
cards are optimised for this format.
High - a long per texel (RGB8 and RGBA8). True 32 bit textures
all around. This eats memory like nobodies business and 
significantly increases the load on the AGP bus, but
guarantees true 32 bit rendering.
Default - what the drivers decide is best for you. Generally,
for 16 bit rendering, this will be the same as the medium
setting. If you are running at 32 bit, then the drivers MAY
promote the textures to 32 bit, but this is not guaranteed.
Some cards let you choose this setting in their display
properties.
S3TC - Automatically compress textures to reduce the system
memory and AGP bus load. The BTC algorithm used by S3 doesn't
play well conceptually with translucent textures and so is
not implemented for them. The GeForce has S3TC in hardware but
S3 will not license the tech to NVidia (or nVidia isn't
offering enough in the way of $), which is why the GeForce
OpenGL drivers do not have S3TC but the DirectX ones do.

3/2 

I've updated the dedicated.cfg at
http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jscott/sof/dedicated.cfg
as things got added/changed.

Please keep your comments coming to sof-demo@ravensoft.com.
We do read them all - even though we don't get chance to reply
to each one.

Any technical problems, check out the messageboards and FAQ
at http://sof.ravensoft.com. Kenn is doing an awesome job
helping people out.

1/2

Word from ATI. They sent me their latest ICD (thanks Tom!)
which fixed all the issues with shadows and decals in the 
SoF demo on Rage128 and Rage MAXX cards. They are currently 
working on getting this build up to GLSetup and on their 
own site. The problems were not showstoppers, but did make
the game look not as pretty as it should have done.

30/1

Thanks for all your replies about the SiS530 card :)
It's now firmly in the 'unsupported' list.

27/1

I've put up a list of dmflags for you server admins
out there.
http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jscott/sof/dmflags.txt
If someone wants to HTMLise these - feel free.

http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jscott/sof/diatrical.jpg
These are the characters we base our fonts off. If
you want to play with l33t h4x0r names, then check it
out. You'll have to manually edit your config.cfg file
though.

Anyone know what a SiS530 video is ? (Apart from onboard
and claiming to be 3D).

ATI told me they were working the decal and shadow
problems - I'll keep you informed.

Kenn's brief poll of download sites yesterday revealed
well over a 100000 downloads of the demo *grin*.

I'm not feeling too well at all, forgive me if my email
replies are a little short today.

26/1

Things are just a little hectic around here :)

First off - check these out
http://www.penny-arcade.com/modem.shtml
http://www.penny-arcade.com/soldier.shtml
http://etherlife.gamesmatrix.com/soldier.gif

Thankyou for all your comments, please keep 
them coming!

For the many people that have complained about the
lack on an invert mouse function - there is one in
just under the mouse sensitivity sliders.

For those of you that can't RTFM (like me) here's
a rundown of the scalability options.

Ghoul Light Method -
* Flat - Ugly and quick. One point light source for the
whole model.
* Balanced - 4 light sources interpolated over the model
and allows specular lighting.
* High - As balanced, but takes into account dynamic
lights.
* Hardware - Uses the GL T&L path. This will be the slowest
option unless you have a GeForce.

Shadow Quality -
* Off - No shadows.
* Low - Blob shadows
* High - Real time generated shadows (very expensive)

Specular lighting -
* Off - Not shiny models.
* On - Shiny models.

Detail Texturing -
* Off - None. Use for low fill rate cards.
* Ranged - Apply up to a range specified by the slider.
* On - Apply on the whole world.

Number of decals -
Decals are the explosion burn marks and the blood
splatters on the walls and floor. The further right
the slider - the more the game will remember.

Effect Overdraw -
The number of pixels the effects system renders before
culling out. Explosions especially but effects in general
can really eat fillrate. If you have a high fillrate card
(G400, GeForce/TNT2, V3) then slide this to the right for
better visual effects. If you have a low fillrate card
(V1, RagePro) then keep this slider to the left. The best
thing to do is tweak your settings so as to get the best
visuals with the least chug.

Corpse Duration -
This is the number of dead bodies lying around before they
fade out to nothing. As bodies have the same number of
polys as player models, they can be very expensive.

Model Expressions -
The number of facial expressions the enemies have. Turning
this down will reduce the amount of textures loaded.

Skin Variety -
If you want to shoot a bunch of clones, turn this right 
down. Again, use for video cards with not much memory or
machines with low system memory.

25/1 Part 2

A common issue that people seem to have is that there
are too many keys. We have only really added two
(the zoom in and out), which are not necessary (you
can hold down the alternate fire to zoom in).

We will be putting in several predefined configs and
I am pushing for 2 new keys that emulate the use and
strafe left/right functionality in one keypress.

There has been much discussion internally, but what
other ideas do you netizens have ?

Email: sof-demo@ravensoft.com 

25/1

Here is the config file that runs when a dedicated 
server is started.
http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jscott/sof/dedicated.cfg

Just slip it in your user folder and edit to your liking.
It will override the one in the pak file. It is heavily
commented and about 300 bytes.

To get a list of dm flag bits, run the game with a console,
set deathmatch to 1 and type list_dmflags (setting
deathmatch to 1 is required for this).

I ran a cable server at home last night, it filled up
in about 30 seconds! 

Have fun fragging!

24/1 Part 4

In the server browse menu, click on the title to sort by 
that criteria. If you click on 'Ping', it will sort by
ping (so you can find the quickest servers). If you click
on it again, it will reverse sort it. So if you want to 
find the 'ZZZZZZ's House of ZZZZZ's' server, click on
'servername' twice.

24/1 Part 2

OK....first [goof]up of the demo goes to me :(

Setting public in the start server menu doesn't make
the server public i.e. viewable by WON

There are 2 fixes to this -

1. Run the game with the command line "+set console 1"
and then after starting the server, bring down the 
console and type "public 1".

2. Alternatively, put the file 
http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jscott/sof/startdm.cfg
in your "user/menus" folder (the user folder is parallel
to base) and all will be as it should. So for a default
install, this would be
"C:/Program Files/Raven/SOF Demo/user/menus"
The file is about 40 bytes.

Either of these fixes will allow other people to view 
your server through WON.

Apologies for the inconvenience.

24/1

Just a quick update on the below -

We have coded around the lack of blend modes on the 
Riva128. 

The RagePro works with some texturing issues, but 
don't expect 60fps from it!

The GeForce runs and looks great.....

Still no idea on the Permedia3 or the Savage2k, 
although they should be fine.

The Rage128 and Rage Fury MAXX have minor problems
with decals clipped off the edge of the screen and the
real time generated shadows. Turn the shadows to blob
and you'll hardly notice the decal problem unless you
are specifically looking for it. Both cards look great.

If you get strange weapon changes when vid_restarting 
in fullscreen on the Voodoo3, that is a 'feature' of the
drivers - they generate an extra wm_mwheeldown message.

I'll be doing a comparative timing analysis of all the 
cards when I get a bit of spare time (hah!). Most likely
between going gold and the game reaching the shelves.

When in doubt - use GLSetup (http://www.glsetup.com)

6/10

"The state of video card support in SoF"

All the following work just fine with the drivers from
GLSetup.

TNT2
TNT
Savage4
Savage3
Voodoo3
Voodoo2
Voodoo Banshee
Voodoo1
Voodoo Rush
I740
Rage128
G200

..and the rest on a card by card basis

G400 - works great with the beta drivers, just not the
GLSetup ones. They are planning an update on Friday.

Riva128 - We need to do some coding to get around 
the hardware problems this has. The game runs fine, it
is just some alpha'd sprites have a black border.

RagePro - works fine on test levels, just not in 
production ones. We are working with ATI on this. This
is the card in a gazillion laptops so we will put in
the effort.

Permedia2 and Verite 2x00 - too slow and not enough
features to run the game at all.

Permedia3 - no idea, we don't have one.

PVR1 (aka PCX2) - Way too slow.

I can't comment on any other cards we may or may not have :)

I'm about to buy a new PC, and I'll be buying a TNT2 with 
that. Alternatively, you can't go wrong with a Rage128, G400
or Savage4; they all show off SoF to its best.

26/8

As there is a Duke SETI team, why not a Raven team ? Sign up
if you wish!

http://setiathome.ssl.berkeley.edu/stats/team/team_6644.html