Name: John Scott
Email: jscott@ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nick: Pagan
Project: ?

Disclaimer - The opinions expressed herein are personal and
in no way represent that of Raven Software or Activision.

12/3

We're all working hard here.. I'm not allowed to say on what =(

It is a happy day in Madison; looking out my window I can
see more grass than snow! (or more to the point, more dead
looking brown sodden grass like stuff).

22/1

<work stuff>

</work stuff>

<rant>
"The joy of Tech Support"

I've had a cable modem for just over a year now and for
the most part it has been great. However, for the past
6 weeks I have not been able to get online for more than
about 30 seconds at a time. Every time I rang Charter Tech
support the welcome message said there were connectivity 
problems in Madison; I thought this was the problem and let
it ride. 

After about 3 weeks I decided to hold and talk to someone. 
When the operator said "Your wait time may be longer
than 20 minutes" they weren't kidding. After 80 minutes on
hold I got to pick my OS and then had to hold for another
35 minutes before someone answered.

After going thru all the standard TCP/IP checks, the TS
guy decided my modem had "slipped" and had to be "pushed".
After about an hour, everything was great again; this lasted
about 48 hours.

OK, I thought, I've got a ticket number now, I should be able
to leave a message. Every 5 minutes the operator stated "Press
1 at any time to leave a message". They were lying, pressing
1 does nothing when the music is playing; you have to wait
until the recorded message plays. This put me through to a 
real life person who asked me to hold (doh!). After a couple
of minutes I got thru to another person who didn't have a
clue what cable modems even were. I gave up this line of
inquiry.

Second attempt. I'll go to work and email them. No problem,
I just need to find their email address on the support pages
and write an explanation with the ticket number. I found the
@Home support pages can only be accessed from home.com domains.
Can someone send me the @Home tech support email address please?
(That is if they don't auto reject all emails that don't end in
home.com). Any reason why you can't log on to the site with
your @Home username and password?

A friend of mine had similar problems, after 2 months he found
out that they had given his IP to someone else. As soon as he
got a new one, everything worked fine. What wonderful 
organisation.

I suppose I'll have to waste another 2 hours on hold tonight =(

Here are my attempts to get DSL.

<praise>
Provider #1 - TDS Metro

"My address is xxxx Blah Lane, can you give me a DSL connection?"
"You'll need out local phone service which you can get by
the 22nd of this month, but you are 5.3 miles from the exchange
so we cannot supply you with DSL I'm afraid."

I'd go with these guys if I could. Straight answers to easy
questions.
</praise>

Provider #2 - Midplains (and the only other) attempt #1

"My address is xxxx Blah Lane, can you give me a DSL connection?"
"What's your phone number there?"
I was keeping the same number as at my apt, so gave them that.
"That's scheduled to move at the end of the month, we can only
do a DSL availability check at it's current location."
"I have the phone numbers of the people either side of my
new location; can you tell me if it completely out of the
question or not?"
"No, sorry".

Ho hum. I had to stick with cable.

Attempt #2

"My phone number is xxx xxxx, can you give me a DSL connection?"
"It'll take a couple of days to check, we'll get back to you."

That was 11 days ago, no news at all. They do not offer any
webspace either and only 1 email address.



The bottom line is that cable is my *only* broadband solution
and their TS sucks royally. I can't even find out who to email
to complain. There must be a better way.

</rant>

7/1

What ex Ravenites get up to!

http://www.atomfilms.com/default.asp?film_id=1217

14/11

Please upgrade to the new HM demo code if you have not
already done so. We'll be taking the master server down for
the OLD demo next week sometime to reduce our support needs
and free up some resources on the master server machine.
The new demo uses the retail master server.

10/11

The winner of the poster and box is Thomas from Mansfield
in the UK. He should be receiving them shortly!

28/9

More CD key fun. It seems there was an anomaly when printing
out the CD keys (read: someone screwed up and is going to get
shouted at), and '0's were not printed.

The format of the key is XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-HH where HH is
a hex number and the only place where '0's can occur.
So, if you seem to be missing a digit at the end, put a '0'
in its place.

This will be fixed in future duplication runs.

Apologies for the inconvenience.

24/9

Just a reminder, do NOT send your CD Key to anyone. No one 
at Raven or Activision will EVER ask for it. Any request for
your CD Key is a ploy to steal it from you.

Treat the key as you would your car keys.

26/8/99

The Raven SETI team....

http://setiathome.ssl.berkeley.edu/stats/team/team_6644.html