[rogue-ent.com]

Login name: gateway   			In real life: Steve Tietze
Directory: /Users/gateway           	Shell: /bin/csh
Last login Mon May 12 14:07 on ttyp0 from dos_vision
Plan:
*Please read first.  I am the worst speller on the earth so be warned *
*now :) .  Also anything that I say is not personally the view of     *
*Rogue Entertainment and should not be confused with those view of our*
*company.  Now that's over lets begin the llama .planwagon            *

5/13

Now I usually try not to update my plan with my personal life but I have to
say...

Wow!!!... I have to say go see U2 concert this summer.  This is the 2nd time 
I have seen them and they rocked!  Great show.

On the other hand.. we have released our QC files about a week ago.  I’m
curious as to what public will do with these.  Send me any modifications
that you do and we can post them onto our web site.  Also for the awesome
bot creators I would like to see the best DOE bot out there.  Just imagine
a bot switching to plasma with quad on.. BOOM! dead :)

For those of you who haven’t gotten the JUNE CGW magazine,  I suggest pick it 
up.. has alot of information on so called "quake killers"  You know its funny
to hear that word "quake killers"  just think about it its almost a year
now since the quake technology is out and there hasn’t been anything out there
to rival it yet.  John C is always about 20 steps ahead of everybody.  It
amazes me at his abilities.

ON another note.. E3 is around the corner and for those of you planning
on going you better get your shit booked cause we had a hell of a time
finding air and hotel for the right times and dates.  I'm flying in
on wed and was wanting to know if some of the game developers out there
wanted to hook up for a dinner or so somewhere.  Also I know alot of parties
are being planned.. if you know of any email them to me with a invite of
course :)


5/2

Well.. I just have to say that the prey engine is looking
excellent!  We went over there and saw a demo of prey running.
I’m not going to give things away but Prey shows excellent use of
3d hardware acceleration.  I was very impressed with what they
have done with it.  Some of you that went to CGDC saw a version of
the demo so I’m sure you guys will agree when I saw I was impressed.
I have to say 3d hardware is definitely going to be the future of
game engines.  At one point I’m sure Intel will eventually put 
a 3d chip onto the mother board.  

I think eventually that PC mother boards will be like the amiga was
 a long time ago.  I think amiga did a great job of putting dedicated 
chips on the mother board.  It had a dedicated gfx,sound etc on the mother
board which I’m no tech guru gives the CPU faster access on the machine.
I think eventually mother boards will be like this.  Anyhow.. I’m rambling
but i do have to give hands down to how the prey engine looks now.  I
was impressed and its takes alot to do that engine wise.  I know the prey
engine is pretty much done now its time to make the game part and I just
have to say it again cant wait to play the game.

Played with Shadow Warrior.. hehe.. if u liked Duke 3d U will like
shadow warrior.. :)

Well we released the rogue qc stuff from our pack.. IM very interested to
see what people will do with this.

I also have to thank the people who emailed me their ideas about clans
and how they think a structure should be.. this helped out alot
and I’m still trying to take in the information, but many thanks.

...............


4/29

Well it’s been a while since I updated my plan.  IM working on
some personal projects around the world of Clans.  I need to 
get some info on how clans are set up and the hierarchy of the
Quake Clans.  Are there any official Quake Clan rules and regulations
type of web systems set up?  Is there any official rankings set up with
in a clan? top dog, 2nd etc? 

Let me pose a few questions to the gaming community.

1. What kind of ranking order would you like to see in a clan?

2. If Quake had the ability to make stats what type of stats would you
   want in and how would that balance the game play?

3. What type of ruling system would you like to see?

4. Are there any problems with setting up a clan and getting it
   all to work.

These are just some basic questions I have.  I would really like
to hear from people that are trying to set up a "Order" to
the whole Clan community.  Please drop me some email and give me
your thoughts about the whole clan idea and what you would like
to see in the future of clans.


4/13

I thought I would update my .plan since I had some time today.
For those that don't know yet I have written a article for our
web page on "Level speed design" I hope that you guys can get
something out of this and possibly speed up some of those slow
levels you have been making.  Please give me any feedback on this
article and what future articles you want to see on level design or
3d.  Also for those of you who have played the pack I would like to
get a list of the top 5 levels you like from our pack!
..........