[idsoftware.com]
Login name: strife    			In real life: Strife by Rogue
Directory: /nardo/strife            	Shell: /bin/csh
Never logged in.
Project: http://pages.prodigy.com/TX/jmonroe/strife.html
Plan:
18 Sep 95
---------
Tech Notes for those who've asked:
	Strife will run under the same operating systems as Doom2.
	Runs just fine under Windows 95!  no tweaking needed!

STRIFE is a role-playing oriented action game by Rogue Entertainment Inc.
It uses an improved version of Doom's excellent engine to bring
you an RPG style world.  the levels are seamlessly integrated to
represent a single world of connected maps. you can go back to the town
again and again to buy more ammo from the merchant.  or whatever.

Strife-  An action / R.P.G. where medieval and high technologies combine to
form a world where warfare and oppression are a way of life.  Your faith in
the Order, a quasi-religious militant sect that serves as both spiritual and
political masters for the people, has eroded into hatred and mistrust.  You
are one of the new breed, one of the few who are willing to fight for change
against the Order.  There are others,  the underground rebellion, the
Movement.  You've heard stories of how they've begun to strike back, and in
large enough numbers to actually frighten the Order.  Your wish is to join
with them, overthrow the Order and bring the tyranny to its end.  This is
where you begin your journey through Strife.

What's working now: Level to level warping, Jumping, looking up and down,
Player stats and rewards, translucent mid textures, network and deathmatch
play, NPC conversation, inventory, new actors, plot.

What we're working on:  New deathmatch stuff, save games, scripting the
registered levels, sound and music, finish designing registered levels,
misc. artwork cleanup.

tons more actors, robots, items, and yes, plot and missions.
Gain glory as you discover new lands, complete challenging tasks...


Release date:
Fall '95 (This would be Fall in the USA)

--------------------------------------------------
Strife:  In a world where warfare reigns as the sport of Kings,
and technology is the best weapon, change begins.