Login: alex                            Name: Alex Redman                             
No project.
Plan:
Alex "Cybermind" Redman
CEO, Project Director

Zen Tao Interactive  -  http://zentao.unrealengine.com 

Email: alex@zentao.unrealengine.com
Project: Extreme Wing Chun VR for Unreal/UT

-

Monday, Sept 25th, 2000

Here's an interesting technical challenge for anyone who can
hack it. I recently got a shipment of K6-2 550 AGR OEM and a
pile of Asus P5A rev 1.06 MB to match. 

The symptoms about to be described affect each of the CPU and
MB, and there is no sign of it when using K6-2 500, or 450
which we also have lying around to test with.

On each of the systems, everything is set default, and a fresh
install of WinME, each with various different components. No
tweaks or questionable apps installed, just basic and clean.

Every version of P5A bios was tried to alleviate it, but to no
avail. Write Allocate is enabled on all, and everything checks
out just fine for a while. Intermittently, however, performance
drops by approx 45% and then jumps up again. When testing perf
in SiSoft Sandra 2000 Pro, scores jump from around 1120, down
to around 240 or so.. with updates, it fluctuates more than
should ever be seen.

Ideas? If you're running K6-2 550 AGR OEM with a P5A and don't
experience this problem, plz email neil and let him know what
you're doing to get stability in terms of perf if you are NOT
overclocking your 550. Send to neil@zentao.unrealengine.com

If you can figure it out, and it works for us, the first one
to figure it out gets their choice of gravis controller in
the mail in a few days. Make sure and include a valid email. ;)

Good luck,

Cyber


Cyber


-

It should be noted that the views expressed in this .plan file
are my own, and should not necessarily be construed as those
of Zen Tao Interactive, it's staff, investors, sponsors or
anyone else for that matter! If you don't agree with me or
take offense to what I say here... it's your problem. ;)


"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never
been hurt, and dance like nobody's watching."

- Indi on ICQ

"If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die
for, he isn't fit to live." 

- Martin Luther King, Jr.

".. do your work, and I shall know you. Do your work, and you
shall reinforce yourself."

- Excerpt from Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay on Self Reliance
No public key.
