Login: alex                            Name: Alex Redman                             
No project.
Plan:
Alex "Cybermind" Redman
CEO, Project Director

Zen Tao Interactive  -  http://zentao.unrealengine.com 

Email: alex@zentao.unrealengine.com
Projects: Extreme Wing Chun VR for Unreal/UT
	  Black Dragon Fists for UT

-

Tuesday, Nov 8th, 2000


I recently took some time out to read both Sean Middleditch's
affirmative article written for PlanetUnreal, as well as
Monstro's opposing views on the subject. Both are well written
and I suggest reading them both if you have any interest in the
subject just head over to http://www.planetunreal.com for that. 

I'm not going to write a novella on the whole thing, just share
some of my thoughts. First I'll skim over the main points both
Sean and Monstro covered since you might not many of us have
time to read 3 articles in one swoop.

-

Sean's affirmations on the subject of open source:

Sean expressed his dream "that the mod community will see the
light of open source, and by doing so allowing mod development
to go where mod development has never gone before." He makes a
very valid point that open source development may well allow
developers to interact in ways that they can't in a closed 
source environment, and result in more value for the gamers
who play their mods. Finally, he calls on us to take a step
into "the new path of software (and mod) development." 

Here's another snippet from Sean's affirmation, word for word:

"Mod developers are faced with a different situation. Mod
developers aren't making a profit off of their mod. They
release their mods for free! What advantage do they gain
from keeping their mod closed source? None! Keeping a mod
closed source, and the development secreted away among the
Chosen Few helps no one. If anything, it's hurting the
Chosen Few!"

He goes on to express his thoughts on the possible reasons
why we're not seeing open sourced mods in the community:

"Perhaps the developers are afraid that their secrets will
be stolen, and someone will make a similar mod"

"Perhaps the mod developers are fond of the closed source
model, and believe open source leads to bugs and low
security."

"Maybe mod developers don't think the average developer
could be trusted to make quality contributions to their
mod unless they made a blood oath to join the development
team."

"More than likely, however, most mod developments are
unaware of the open source development model, or hadn't
thought of applying the model to mod development."

-

Cyber's take on this:

I think anyone reading this .plan knows that EWC is a
-tightly- closed source project, and that Zen Tao takes
it's proprietaries very seriously. A lot of his expression
on why we're not seeing the open source development model
applied, rings true for EWC (save for the last, which I'll
expound on in a future .plan update).

However, Nikki and I don't necessarily feel that the model
we're using for EWC development is "the way to do all
things, all projects" for Zen Tao Interactive. 

I totally agree with Sean's affirmations, and although I
believe there are some holes to the logic behind his
analysis of why commercial projects are rarely open sourced
during development, I'd have to agree that the model is a
solid one for mod makers in the UT community, and will
result not only in a lot more development activity, more
experience working with others, and amount to an excellent
value for gamers in the long run.

-

Monstro's opposing views on the subject of open source:

Monstro expressed his opinion that "the reason that mod
developers do not normally open source is not because
they're not aware of how it can help their mod, it is
because there are people with marginal skills and dubious
intent that will rip what they can and call it their own
because they can. They have nothing to lose. Precisely
because it's a so-called costless and profitless effort,
people take advantage of that and do what they want."

Here's another group of snippets from Monstro's opposing
views, word for word:

"It's not protection of code, it's protection of idea.
People take this stance EXACTLY BECAUSE it's costless
and profitless - no profit can be made, no damages can
be claimed - and you can only say 'it was my idea and
this is what I did with it' and if some schmoe takes your
idea and goes his way and dishonestly claims it as his,
it makes it that much more difficult to make your mark.

"The second point is that the reason Linux and Netscape
(and even much smaller deals like CrystalSpace 3d) work
in an open-source environ is because the development
undertaking is well beyond the scope of one or four
people. A TYPICAL game mod isn't. Therefore, it's much
more likely that someone can attempt to lay that claim
and actually get away with it."

"Now I know these last 2 paragraphs sound like paranoid
rantings and TBH they are. People in general, gamers
especially, continue to confirm my suspicions that some
will lie/cheat/steal to get what they want, mod stealing
is just a different way of doing it. Yeah it's a pretty
pessimistic outlook, but based on my experience it
happens. And the best way to avoid it is to develop
your mod close to the chest."

-

Cyber's take on this:

Monstro says "because there are people with marginal
skills and dubious intent that will rip what they can
and call it their own because they can", and I know
this to be true from experience, so I have to agree
with that, and he's not paranoid at all.

As far as how difficult it is to "make a mark" - in my
opinion that's a direct function of what one puts into
their work and how one presents it. It's not dependant
on what some fool with an itchy ripping finger does.

Fact is, I don't believe anyone "with marginal skills
and dubious content" could undermine a project that
reflects hard work and diligence. Besides, gamers for
the most part aren't dumb, the majority of them can
smell quality and value in a mod a mile away and won't
support someone who's ripping content from devs they
respect.

Although I'm not going to slap the face of reality by
saying that there aren't a large number of gamers that
"lie/cheat/steal to get what they want". That's a 
fact, like it or not. It's like that with anything
and everything, and I won't disagree with it at all. 

Monstro's logic, although rough, makes a razor sharp
point that can't be denied. Still, I think it all
comes down to the aspirations of the developer(s).
I see a lot of gray here, as there could be a
bazillion motivations for creation of a mod. Here
are two examples that may be shared as goals between
both devs, just keep in mind 'motivation always rules
priority':

- The developers of said mod are motivated by the
primary goal of furthering themselves in terms of
a career leading to financial gains, which IMHO
can only be done if credit for their work is ensured
and unchallenged. These are admirable goals, and
their work may well be a great contribution to their
market. 

Note that these fellows above -are- going to meet a
lot of people in this business who will "lie/cheat
and steal to get what they want" and it may well
impede their goals. There's no fault in keeping
their work "close to their chest" as Monstro put it
so gracefully, it's just good business to protect the
value of their product and preserve it's uniqueness
by guarding it.

- The developers of said mod are motivated by the
primary goal of making a significant and lasting
contribution above all else. For them it's about
-creation-, and the value it creates for others. 
This doesn't mean they forsake the possibility or
goal of career or financial gain, or credit for
that matter. What it means for them is, first 
things come first.. and that means gamers.

-

Cyber's final thoughts:

I'm sure it's obvious to you all that it's just
two sides of a single coin. It's yin and yang.
There's a duality with drastically different
faces yet an undeniable and integral common
element. It's also obvious that an open source
development model would invariably work for some,
and not for others. There is no universal
decision, or movement that need take place IMHO.
The beauty of the debate (as it were) is that new
questions are being raised, and awareness is being
furthered, and THAT in itself is refreshing and
valuable to us all.

A bit on balance:

I guess I would have to say that balance in this
case would be a state of equilibrium where both
needs are in synch, neither being evidently
stronger than the other, even in full contrast.

Where will balance in all this be found? ;)


Cyber

-

"and weigh thy words in a balance, and make a door and bar
for thy mouth."

- Ecclisiasticus: 25

"The greatest offense against virtue is to speak ill of it."

- Sketches and essays (1839) on Cant and Hypocracy

-

It should be noted that the views expressed in this .plan file
are my own, and should not necessarily be construed as those
of Zen Tao Interactive, it's staff, investors, sponsors or
anyone else for that matter! If you don't agree with me or
take offense to what I say here... it's your problem. ;)


"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never
been hurt, and dance like nobody's watching."

- Indi on ICQ

"If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die
for, he isn't fit to live." 

- Martin Luther King, Jr.

".. do your work, and I shall know you. Do your work, and you
shall reinforce yourself."

- Excerpt from Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay on Self Reliance
No public key.