Login: alex                            Name: Alex Redman                             
No project.
Plan:
Alex "Cybermind" Redman
CEO, Project Director

Zen Tao Interactive  -  http://zentao.unrealengine.com 

Email: alex@zentao.unrealengine.com
Projects: Extreme Wing Chun VR for Unreal/UT
	  Black Dragon Fists for UT

-

Sunday, Nov 12th, 2000


I Read this bit on VE today, a bit from a summary that 
DukeCentral has up regarding some posts that 3DRealms'
George Broussard made recently on 3DR's official forums.

> On "When Its Done" = "nothing gets done": 
>
> >>To George: You have some really lucky developers. It
> must be really nice to not have to code under a deadline.
> It also sounds like they have a lot of freedom in their
> creativity. I hope they appreciate it. 

> We have deadlines. Lot's of them. As well as a
> constantly updated task list. People think we have no
> idea when DNF will be done. That's not really true. We
> have an idea, we're just not telling anyone. Clearly we
> have internal goals and milestones we strive for. We
> don't just sit around and piddle without some type of
> focused direction.

What is it with gamers and this whole assumption that if
a product isn't on the shelf yesterday, it isn't coming at
all? I know something about this, it's an annoying thorn
when you're taking the time to really create something of
value. I think gamers should appreciate that some devs have
the mind and the pub support to take the time to do things
right by their -own- standards, and really make a mark,
instead of rushing a crap ass product to market. 

Sounds to me like DNF just isn't suffering a trigger
happy product manager pushing all the wrong buttons.

Kudos 3DR! LOL! Time to bring this one out again:

".. do your work, and I shall know you. Do your work, and you
shall reinforce yourself."

- Excerpt from Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay on Self Reliance


Cyber


-

It should be noted that the views expressed in this .plan file
are my own, and should not necessarily be construed as those
of Zen Tao Interactive, it's staff, investors, sponsors or
anyone else for that matter! If you don't agree with me or
take offense to what I say here... it's your problem. ;)


"and weigh thy words in a balance, and make a door and bar
for thy mouth."

- Ecclisiasticus: 25

"The greatest offense against virtue is to speak ill of it."

- Sketches and essays (1839) on Cant and Hypocracy

"If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die
for, he isn't fit to live." 

- Martin Luther King, Jr.

"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never
been hurt, and dance like nobody's watching."

- Unknown, from Indi on ICQ
No public key.