Login: alex                            Name: Alex Redman                             
No project.
Plan:

Alex "Cybermind" Redman
CEO, Project Director

Zen Tao Interactive  -  http://zentao.unrealengine.com 

Email: alex@zentao.unrealengine.com
Projects: Extreme Wing Chun VR for Unreal/UT
	  Black Dragon Fists for UT

-

Wednesday, Nov 21st, 2000

Whoa! OK I need to do a retake on my msg relating to that
aimbot post I made yesterday. I recieved quite a bit of
email about the aimbot as a result of my post. Although
most seem to agree, a few msgs caught my attention and
spurred me to take a bit of time out to find out who
designed the bot and why it was "released".

I totally -HATE- the idea of aimbots, that much is sure.

HOWEVER, like the rest of you, I didn't have a clear pic
of wtf was going on with all that until I spoke with
several people, including the author of the aimbot.

Although I won't name names here (since I know for a fact
that many MANY of you are really pissed about the aimbot)
but I will venture to say that after looking carefully
into the issue, I feel the author had NO malicious intent,
and really was taken for a spin by the dork who released it
after leading him to believe he wanted to learn from it. 

The fact is, the aimbot code was created as part of an
ongoing effort by the author to address issues related
to cheating in team games, and the proof is in the fact
that the author has a track record for working towards
that end publicly. Several server admins and clans swear
by his anti-cheat tools previously released, and they
are used on several servers according to my forays with
the search engine Copernic 2000 Pro.

I spent some time speaking with the author about various
issues, mostly relating to aimbots, and it's evident to me
that this fellow is not to be blamed for spreading it, not
by me anyhow. My post was misfired, we're all human. ;)

Anyhow, here's a link to a post the author made regarding
these issues over on instagib.com:

http://www.instagib.com/ubb/Forum1/HTML/001936.html

Anyhow the purpose of this update is not to validate him,
or apologize for having strong feelings about cheating,
or the use of aimbots. I will always look down on that type
of bad sportsmanship. What I will say, is that I strongly
feel I was mistaken in my -assumption- that the tragic leak
and widespread use of the aimbot was a result of the author's
intentions. I'm sure our friend is doing whatever he can to
rectify the situation. He is genuinely disturbed by the damage
this leak of internal work has caused to the community.

I think it's safe to say he's got one less enemy today. ;)

Cyber

-

"Some men are good for righting wrongs, - and some are good
for writing verses."

- Frederick Locker-Lampson

-

It should be noted that the views expressed in this .plan file
are my own, and should not necessarily be construed as those
of Zen Tao Interactive, it's staff, investors, sponsors or
anyone else for that matter! If you don't agree with me or
take offense to what I say here... it's your problem. ;)

-

"Our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good
we oft might win, by fearing to attempt"

- William Shakespeare

"and weigh thy words in a balance, and make a door and bar
for thy mouth."

- Ecclisiasticus: 25

"The greatest offense against virtue is to speak ill of it."

- Sketches and essays (1839) on Cant and Hypocracy

"If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die
for, he isn't fit to live." 

- Martin Luther King, Jr.

"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never
been hurt, and dance like nobody's watching."

- Unknown, from Indi on ICQ
No public key.
