Login: alex                            Name: Alex Redman                             
No project.
Plan:

Alex "Cybermind" Redman
CEO, Project Director

Zen Tao Interactive  -  http://zentao.unrealengine.com 

Email: alex@zentao.unrealengine.com
Projects: Extreme Wing Chun VR for Unreal/UT
	  Black Dragon Fists for UT

-

Sunday feb 25 2001

i'm falling apart here so bear with me just this once. i'm
not a person who shares my feelings or speaks openly about
much.

but i have to do this. if i don't get it out, scream it,
share it, say it, FEEL it.. embrace it and face it. i think
i'll fall sick of a broken heart. one of my children is
passing away and it hurts my soul so much. the past few days
have been an emotional rollercoaster that wrenches my very
heart and soul from deep inside. 

the frustration and sadness i'm feeling right now is totally
overwhelming, i break out in tears from one minute to the
next, i don't know where i'm going or what i'm doing half
the time anymore i feel like screaming out in sorrow and
anguish. so many times the pain is so deep it kills the
voice before it comes. every line i write here i salted with
tears that come from the very source of my being.. that  
deep well of sorrow with no end in sight. oh please whatever
collective spirit this universe has.. save his soul and take
care of it.. let it go back into whatever great pool of life
and grow anew.

baby
son
friend
soul
smart
happy
eyes
shy
curious
wise
caring
gentle
soft
warm
pet

creature of love and affection with no ill will towards the
world. only love and a desire to be strong and happy and free.
to explore and learn. to protect. to love.

why can't i stop this? why am i so helpless? i always thought
i could do anything.. but all i can do.. is sit. and cry. and
grieve the death of my poor baby who i will miss so deeply

i love you Bootsy and always will. none of us will ever forget
the peace and happiness you brought into our house those 8 years
ago when i brought you in from the storm and became your father. 

i think you lived a good life, you ate all the food you wanted
and slept with christina almost everynight while she grew into
the wonderful person she is now. you taught her the value of
a friendship and love that crosses all boundries and supercedes
that of race, or creed, or species. i thank you for that dear
lovely creature friend. oh thank you so much. 

you were her most special friend. oh christina how i cry for
you tonight. my tears are for us all

out there in cyberspace. thanks for listening to my soul 

i'll post here again when i'm not hurting as much.. 8~(

daddy




It should be noted that the views expressed in this .plan file
are my own, and should not necessarily be construed as those
of Zen Tao Interactive, it's staff, investors, sponsors or
anyone else for that matter! If you don't agree with me or
take offense to what I say here... it's your problem. ;)

-

"Our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good
we oft might win, by fearing to attempt"

- William Shakespeare

"The greatest offense against virtue is to speak ill of it."

- Sketches and essays (1839) on Cant and Hypocracy

"If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die
for, he isn't fit to live." 

- Martin Luther King, Jr.

"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never
been hurt, and dance like nobody's watching."

- Unknown, from Indi on ICQ
No public key.