Login: alex                            Name: Alex Redman                             
No project.
Plan:

Alex "Cybermind" Redman
CEO, Project Director

Zen Tao Interactive  -  http://zentao.unrealengine.com 

Email: alex@zentao.unrealengine.com
Projects: Extreme Wing Chun VR for Unreal/UT
	  Black Dragon Fists for UT

-

Monday feb 27th 2001

I finally went into the office today, after being home for
4 days (a longer stretch than I have for over a year). I
just wanted to take a second to make sure there was some
level of closure in regard to my emotional .plan update
from the other day. I really was hurting when I wrote it,
and I don't want that to be the end of it. 

I've found some small measure of peace since then.

I usually save checking my email for sunday when I have
some time to weed out stuff and respond to fan (or hate)
mail, whatever. But I decided to check it today for some
reason. This time around, out of all the standard
EWC related mail, and birthday wishes (the 26th was my
birthday, talk about horrible timing jeez), and a really
amazing amount of sympathy email.. and there was this one
msg that really stood out, and I just wanted to share some
of it with you as it really made me feel a bit better after
reading it through:

-

Alex,

I stumbled across your .plan today. The way it began, I
thought  it was going to go in to a confession on the evils
in the game design business or the perils and pitfalls of
technology's cutting edge....

I quickly realized it was something infinitely more
important. I couldnt get through the whole thing before my
eyes welled with tears and I got this lump in the back of
my throat. I can't imagine what you are going through, but
I was deeply moved and saddened by your candid outpouring
of grief and emotion. I hope in some small way that releasing
that anguish and sorrow will somehow help you begin the
process of healing.

I also hope you and your family will one day find a way to
celebrate, honor and hold dear the memories of your child,
and that you will come to see that everyday of those 8 years
was truly a blessing and a miracle for you all.

Please accept my deepest sympathies. Don't feel obligated
to respond, as you were not obligated to share your feelings.

Sincerely,
Tim Johnston
A fellow human being and gamer

-

I'll share this last bit with you before I lay this to rest.

I came across a short piece on the web the morning of the
25th, while I was looking for guidance during a particularly
emotional episode. I read it aloud at the vet's on the
passing of our pet to console my wife, and my daughter - it
really struck home. I don't know who wrote this, but whoever
it was had a profound understanding of things.

YOU FAUGHT HARD TO STAY ALIVE, MY FRIEND. IN THE END, THOUGH,
YOU COULDN'T CONQUER DEATH. BUT NEITHER DID DEATH CONQUER YOU.
DEATH CURES ALL DISEASES, MENDS ALL BROKEN BONES, BREAKS ALL
CHAINS, AND MADE YOU FREE.. AT LAST.

As I expressed to Tim in my email back to him, I wanted to
take a moment to thank all of you who sent in email... for
your sensitivity, support, and kind words.


Cyber

-

It should be noted that the views expressed in this .plan file
are my own, and should not necessarily be construed as those
of Zen Tao Interactive, it's staff, investors, sponsors or
anyone else for that matter! If you don't agree with me or
take offense to what I say here... it's your problem. ;)

-

"Our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good
we oft might win, by fearing to attempt"

- William Shakespeare

"The greatest offense against virtue is to speak ill of it."

- Sketches and essays (1839) on Cant and Hypocracy

"If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die
for, he isn't fit to live." 

- Martin Luther King, Jr.

"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never
been hurt, and dance like nobody's watching."

- Unknown, from Indi on ICQ
No public key.