Login: stephen        			Name: Stephen Wilson
Directory: /u/stephen               	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Tue Sep  9 21:51 (CDT) on ttyp5 from pantera
Mail last read Tue Sep  9 23:32 1997 (CDT)
Plan:
Tuesday September 9, 1997

	Been a while since my last .plan file update.
	Let's see what I've done. 
	- Well after the insurance people decided that my car was totaled,
they screwed with me for about a month until Dave introduced me to his
lawyer and the ways of a American Legal System. Pretty kewl what a few
well placed legal terms can do for you.  :)
	- Now my bank seems to think that I owe them payments for a car
that was paid off a month ago.  *sigh*  The world is full of STUPID
people, and I have a way of bumping into each and every damned one of
them.
	- Fortunately, when the office was robbed, the burglers had the
decency not to take any of my work.  *phew*
	- I've never truely recovered from the 4 gig hard drive that died
when we moved offices.  *groan*
	- I finally developed all 14 rolls of my film that I have been
collecting since November 96.  Two rolls were completely exposed *sob*
One from a Grand Canyon trip in November, and the other from another Grand
Canyon trip that I took in February.
	- Ivette is now a permanant fixture in the very complex life of
Shanna and I.  Anyone know if polygamy is still legal anywhere???
	- Jonathon loaned me his old college car until the game ships.
This was SUPER kewl.  It has allowed me to catch up on some of my debt.
Debt sucks!
	- Went out with Jonathon a couple of times.  The girls that I hang
out with really like him.  We had a pretty good time.  Everyone else in
the office is afraid to go out with me and my friends.  (They are afraid
that we might BITE!!!  *snap snap*)
	- Been playing in Gene's VLARP.  I'm a Gangrel and the Sheriff.  A
few of my friends have become pretty interested in his VLARP.  I played a
Vampire game back in College Station, but it sucked.  Oh, and the one that
is run here in Austin on the u.t. campus sucks too.  I was VERY amazed at
how good of a storyteller Gene is.  He re-opened my eyes to role playing.
I thought that it died with the C-64 crowd.
	- Joel took me scuba diving in San Marcos.  I plan to get
certified ASAP!!!  I loved it.  Shanna kept jumping around going, "I
touched the fishies!!!  I touched the fishies!!!"  *smile*  She is so cute
and wonderful.

	So... you want to know what I've been doing with Golgotha...
huh???
	- To start with; Jonathon, Trey and Oliy are AWESOME.  They do
things with code that would amaze anyone but the best programmers.  And
even they would still be impressed.  One of my favorite pasttimes is to
watch them tapping away at the keyboard.  It's not unlike watching a group
of Jolt-inated teens going for the all-time Galaxian high score while the
high school cheerleaders scream supporting yells in the background. (This
isn't meant to be an insult, in fact it is very kewl to watch)
	- Secondly, Jonathon and Trey have an enormous amount of patience
and endurance towards my constant nagging.  You see, if Crack has an
official beta-tester... it's me.  I know more about the game than anyone
else in the office.  Since I am designing the scenerios and the art to go
in them, I spend most of my time watching the game crash... then yelling
at the programmers to fix it.  This has turned out to be an awesome talent
of mine.  More things have been added and fixed in the game since the last
demo we put out, that I'm convinced this next demo will shock everyone.
	- Trey put in tunnels... Jonathon put in bridges... and Oliy put
in some interested physics.  How does all of this affect me?!?!  Well,
probably because I am the one that gets to model all of the 'test' objects
to see if the game can even handle it.  I'm also the biggest complainer in
the office... that means that they do alot of things just to shut me up.
*grin*
	- I bitched for months for Jonathon to put in the ability to load
up greyscale heightmaps for the levels.  When he did... I was able to
crank out maps in minutes instead of days.  I wish that I could ship the
'Pac-Man' level... but I think that copyright laws would cause a problem
with this.  Hopefully when the game ships people will start up FTP
archives of greyscale maps that can be used in the game.  How would you
like to go driving off of Bill Gates' nose while firing missiles at the
tank in his open mouth???  :)
	- I've made a number of new sky backgrounds.  Some are 'ok',
others are just KEWL.  I especially like my new snowy mountain one.. and
the sky with the moon.
	- I'm almost finished with the new snow terrains.  I also have
wildflowers in the grass terrain, and new waters.  The snow/ice cliffs
have been the most difficult to make tilable.
	Something that I have noticed in other games is a HUGE lack of
attempt to make textures tilable.  In the demo of Tombraider2 I almost
choked over the crappy job they did on the brick textures.  I mean.. who
the hell can't tile Bricks?!?!?
	Sure, if they only had 2 artist like we do here... I could
understand.  But most of those bigger companies have artists falling out
of their asses.  *sigh*  (flame off)

	- I spent a considerable amount of time trying out ideas for
polygonal explosions and special effects.  Many of them require a great
deal of Alpha blending.  Something that is very costly on the software
version of the game.  So, I've been trying to come up with kewl ways to
make the EFX without needing to alpha blend.  Let me tell you... this is
hard.  Most of the arcade games can't even do a decent job of effects when
they have alpha-blending.  Other games resort to 'cartoonish' sprites.
I'm trying my best to stay away from both.  But it's been a challenge.
	Too many jobs and not enough imps.  Need to mine more gold and
build more treasure rooms.  *sigh*
	- Been playing SSIs Birthright.  Dungeon Keeper was fun for the
couple of days that it took to beat it.  But it got old.  Birthright is my
sort of game.  The others here would probably rather pull out all of their
teeth than play a full game of it.  :)
	Birthright's only drawback (in my opinion) is in its 'lack' of
save game ability.  You can only save at the beginning of a Turn.  Each
turn has 3 actions (4 if you have an artifact).  If you choose to
Adventure (Doom style) during one or two of those actions, it could be 2-5
hours before your next save game.  The game crashes on my machine every
3-8 hours.  Let me tell you... this SUCKS!!!  It has a few other gameplay
issues that will hopefully be solved in a patch.  But all in all, it is my
sort of game.  Imagine putting Eye of the Beholder, Fantasy Warhammer, and
Romance of the Three Kindoms all together in one game.  That's what SSI
did with Birthright.  Kinda neat.  :)
	I would like to make a game like it someday.  If I had a chance
I'd like to make a game that combined aspects of some of my favorite old
games that noone here has even played.  *groan*
	------- Origin's Knights of Legend (C-64)
	------- The Magic Candle (C-64)
	------- Mar's Saga (C-64)
	------- Federation and Empire (board game)
	------- with either a Cyberpunk/Fantasy/Sci-Fi/SuperHero genre
		Not too picky with the genre... just the engine.

	I sent out a few more screenshots to some of the Golgotha
'support' websites.  These guys are kewl.  I'm always glad to see people
supporting the hard work that we do.  The guy at Golgotha Dammit wrote my
name as STEVE.  I utterly despise STEVE.  So much in fact that I often
don't reply to email that starts out... Dear Steve.  I figure that they
have the wrong Stephen... and I delete their message.  Sure, it's harsh,
but obtaining Partial Global World Domination isn't easy.  You have to
have standards and force your underlings to comply.  Otherwise you have
utter chaos.  Chaos is great at a Rave/Nude-Beach-Party.  But try ruling a
world with it.  *sigh*

	I wonder if anyone ever reads this crap.  I should include secret
Golgotha tricks and tips in each one of these updates.  Then I'd see who
actually reads them.  Or... some wiseass would read it, then post it on
the web and claim it as his own brilliant deduction.
	*Memo to self*  When I rule my little part of the world, send out
the Assimites to round up all of the wiseasses ('cept me... of course) and
send them to France.  Why France?  Because it's not Texas.
	First tip of the Golgotha 'demos'....  Create a new game... making
sure that you don't have any scenes.   Switch to the game F6, note where
your super tank is on the map... then press the 'M' key.  This will try to
load the Movie Scene.  But since there isn't one... it will make your
tank's current position into a camera and 'randomly' teleport your tank
somewhere.  If you drive the tank back to the spot where it was before you
hit the 'M' key... you can watch your super tank driving around and
killing things.  This is kind of neat.  You may not be impressed with
it... but we were.  Call it an undocumented 'feature'.  :)  (Oh... and you
can still you the right mouse button to control the turret.. while doing
this)

	Well, I've rambled enough for now.  IF you want to chat about
something... email me.  Otherwise thanks for reading all of this.  Unless
of course you are a stalker.  In which case remember that Texas has a
Concealed Handgun law.  (IE... I may have one)  Or scarier yet... I may
not need one.  *GriN*   If you are a FEMALE stalker... you have to consult
the 'girls' first.  If they accept you into the 'clan'... then you can
stalk your little ass off!   Whoo Woo Woo!!!


----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------


Tuesday July 29,1997

	Once again, my .plan file has been nuked from our server.  So, I
am forced to create yet another.  *sigh*

	I just talked to the insurance agent of the guy that destroyed my
new 2 week old car with his Suburban.  They are willing to work everything
out and take complete responsibility for the wreck.  !Yippee!

	As for work, well, I haven't been able to do as much as I would
like to.  The game refuses to work on my computer.  I am left to speculate
what the 'ex-artist'/'previous owner' did to my machine before he left
Crack.  There appears to be a couple of solutions.
	- Format the harddrive and re-install everything.  *groan*
	- Delete windows, and re-install all of the drivers. *groan*
	- Wait for the programmers to piece the software version of the
game back together.  *sigh*
	- Stay late each night when everyone has left and work on someone
elses machine.  *yawn*
	- Work on completely unrelated stuff... like catching up on the
latest software packages and plugins for Max and Photoshop.  *GriN*


	I watched Air Force One last night.  Kewl effects.  But I must
say, that I am REALLY waiting to see Starship Troopers and SPAWN!!!
	They look very YUMMY!  Maybe someday, I'll start my own production
company and I'll make something that will set the standards in movie
making.  I mean, hell, I am very convinced that Golgotha will ROCK the
world when it is released.  (Especially since all of the Intel and AMD
chip prices just dropped throught the floor.  *GriN*)

	OH, I met a very kewl 3d artist that is looking for work.  He is
currently working as a professionaly magician here in Austin.  His demo
reel looks really good and he is a nice guy.  If anyone out there is
looking for someone with talent and skill and the desire to bust his ass
to be part of the computer art community, let me know and I'll send you
his email address.
	Anyhow, this guy brought me a copy of the Spirit of XMAS video to
check out.  Amazingly, I had never heard of it or seen it.  But let me
tell you, that is REAL art.  :)
	If you are curious what it is all about check out,

	http://incognito.caltech.edu/soxmas/

	Well, that's all for now.  I have to email a couple of beautiful
young ladies that I have been neglecting for the last week.  That, 'oh, my
email has been bouncing and I couldn't write you', excuse is wearing thin.
*Smile*

=------===========--------========----======-------------===--------===
Stephen C.E.S. Wilson		| 3D Artist and Animator forWebsite -
http://www.austintx.net/SCESW	|      ~-._ Crack dot Com _.-~
Email  SCESW@austintx.net      	|       Check my website for
@Work  Stephen@crack.com       	| FREE Meshes, Portfolio, & Bio


	Plan?

	Well, how about finishing this game... (Golgotha) and making enough
 money to pay off the bills and go to Europe for a couple of months.  Then
we'll start Golgotha II, after which I'll be able to afford to pay a 
couple of 'low-upkeep' writers to turn my 'stories' in to the next
Best-Sellers.