[crack.com]

Login: carly          			Name: Carly Staehlin
Directory: /home/carly              	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Wed May 21 19:33 (CDT) on ttyp1 from chord
Mail last read Wed May 21 19:48 1997 (CDT)
Plan:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Points (as of 5/19/97):
JEFF WAND                                   65 pts
dweomer                                    100 pts

Point Leader (as of 5/19/97):
dweomer                                    100 pts

May 21, 1997:

I'm researching the use of Smacker and Active Movie right now.  I can't
make a decision about which looks like a better tool for adding movies
to games.  Anyone have a real opinion about these products?  I'm dishing 
out 25 pts per informative response on this topic.  I need help.

I finished up a little ad that we're going to put up on Sausage Software
sometime soon.  It's kinda funny, but I dunno if that's because I've 
been looking at it for so long I have the giggles, or it really is funny.
When and if it goes up, if you have flames.. please direct them to someone
else, because everyone has an opinion, okay?!  BOOYAH!  Anyway, Sausage is
a neat company.  I've been rappin' with this chap for some time now and
he gives me loads of hints about just about everything.  If he's any
representative of the rest of the people over there in Oz, then yeehaw,
I recommend you buy stock (is it publicly held?).  They're NEAT-O.  Check
em out www.sausage.com.

I'm trying to get photographs from Europe.  I need pics of signs, buildings,
terrain, etc.  If you have pictures from France, Germany, Switzerland, 
England, Scotland, Denmark, Finland, Norway, or Sweden and you want to 
scan them in at high res or send me a hard copy.. let me know.  I want 
them all!!  There's a pretty lady who might be travelling through 
Scandinavia and shooting pics for us.  That would be swell if she pulls
through for us.

Beyond that, I set up some voice talent auditions and did a couple of
follow up calls/emails just to touch base with the outside world.  

I've been told my .plan's are devoid of personality.  This makes me sad.
Well, sorta sad.  I thought I could try to spice them up.  Maybe I could
add ascii pics of nekkid chicks.  WOOWOO.  Hrm.




May 19, 1997:

Wow, this point thing is already getting out of hand.  I see we're
dealing with an intelligent mass!  Very well then.  Expect to see
a more challenging set of point makers.  Well, sometimes.  Like 
trey's.  His are HARD!  (*I realize that many a joke could be spawned
from such a comment, but let's all RISE above such banality.)

I re-organized my .plan log so as to be read more easily by the 
casual passerby.  Wahoo.  Last things first, kind of like dessert
before antipasta.  Nummy.  

Been working in Premiere on the intro comic movie.  I've saved 
using different compression types and different file formats.  They 
all use up way too much space.  I need some major rethinking on this
front.

I ran across a mix tape I made about... 6 or so years ago, maybe even
7.  It had a LOAD of wacky stuff on it... is anyone familiar with the
sound of John Denver being strangled?  50 pts to the first person who
mails me with the source.

!!UPDATE!!  
Jeff Wand, wiley and fast, is the proud owner of 50 brand
new points!  The answer was Monty Python.  Jeff went above and
beyond the call of duty and pinpointed the exact album and track and 
title:  The Monty Python Instant Record Collection, Track 19, Farewell
to John Denver.  For proving himself in the realm of trivia, Jeff
is also awarded 15 BONUS points.  Be sure to extend a congratulations
out his way.  

But that's not all, there are more points to be had!  More points!!
That's right ladies and gents.. be on the look out for
more exciting point opportunties.  I'll be keeping a tally and one
day, to be determined at a later date, those points can be used for
exciting merchandise!  See gene@crack.com  and trey@crack.com 
for more point chances! 
!!UPDATE!!

We had the non-owner meeting today.  It was really productive.  I like
having meals with Gene and Trey and Ken (Stephen and Kevin pooped out).
These boys are good guys.  They have funny things to say.  You need to
ask Ken about the scent of erotic (*whoops, that's rotting, not erotic.
I guess you can see where my thoughts are...*) flesh.  Really.

May 17, 1997:

I made a sweet web page for my little sister.  Check it out:
http://crack.com/about/sane/sheradon.html

May 15, 1997:

Thinking about the great antichrist conflict.  Everyones awaiting the 
Messiah, but if someone shows up saying he's the one, then everyone 
says he's the antichrist because that's what the antichrist would
say.  Maybe she'll come with a nametag.

Mythology research leads to urban legends page where I learn that the 
scrotum self-repair story is actually true and was recorded in a 
Medical Journal in '91.  Yeeeowsers!  

Got a psuedo design for another level on the wall of shame.  That's 
the area just next to my desk.  Talked with L'artist about some bldgs
I'd like to see in the game....  

Spent some goodly time in storyboard mode for the intro stuff.  Got
some cool heavy flashback frames in the works.  Once the contract
is signed with the comic book artist, I'll scan
em and email them to him.  Possibly put a couple of pics up.. to 
be sure, I've copied all material from one place or another.. so if
you recognize any of it.. that's why.

Had to stop fighting with Trey for a little while.  Apparently he was
stuck in the bathroom, literally.  Well, his head was stuck in the
toilet... none of the boys could understand what he was saying, what
with all the gurgling and so forth.. so I ventured into the mens room
and managed to pick out something about "bobbing for logs" midst
all the flushing and bubbling, but not much more.

I called a plumber for him.  I saved his life, really.

Had to kill gene, then remembered he's our resident goth vampire and
I'm short on wooden stakes right now.  So, that's on the list for
laters... Stephen and I tied him to his chair, so at least he can't
wander around muttering about borscht and how rooty tasting root beer
is. 

May 14, 1997:

Finally got a damned .plan up.  Makes me feel fresh and new.  Got a crash
course in .vi, too.  Yahoo.  Spent the early part of the day cleaning up
some HTML that got messed by special HTML editor programs.  I hate most of
them.  Damned intrusive pos's.  I like HotDog Pro tho.  That's cool.

Workin' on legal stuff for the artist who'll be doing the comic intro.
Tryin' to find a good font for the Golgotha logo.  I'm partial right now
to an all lower case version of a sixth degree font.  Looks a little 
organic and that is cool.

Talkin with some voice talent guys about the last few roles to be cast.
Played with Premiere some.. looking for ways to make still images dynamic
using transitions between elements of the still frame.  Working on story
boards for the intro stuff as well as some level layout for mid east 
levels.  

Fightin with everyone in sight about everything I can think of cuz I'm
completely insane, in a mad way, and I gotta live up to my crazy cat 
bitchy self.

