Login: ddt            			Name: Dave Taylor
Directory: /u/ddt                   	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Mon Mar 30 14:00 (CST) on tty1    8 hours 20 minutes idle
On since Wed Apr  8 15:52 (CDT) on ttyp3 from rope
   14 minutes 31 seconds idle
Mail last read Wed Apr  8 20:25 1998 (CDT)
Plan:
My steamy log.

Wed April 8, 1998

-------------------

  Evangelized a radical CPU architecture idea to engineers @ Centaur, got a peek at
    their next CPU.
  More nasm conversions.  We have a buttload of inline asm for several primatives
    optimized for both MMX/3D instructions and for Pentiums.
  Got new build with loads of good stuff including flags and auto-leading.
  Reviewed avail sfx w/ Gene.
  Worked w/ Stephen on font.
  Fixed a couple aesthetic bugs.
  Chats w/ Jonathan & Oli about auto-navigation, missiles, upgrades, & fog of war.

Tue April 7, 1998

-------------------

  Missed lunch w/ Bill.  Arg!
  More nasm conversions.

Mon April 6, 1998

-------------------

  General & director meetings.
  Checked Kevin's law bldg model.
  Checked Gene's background music.
  Wrote tutorial text for Kevin.
  Long chats today about defense towers.
  Chatted up new feature to improve gameplay.

Sun April 5, 1998

-------------------

  OK, I don't normally put HTML in my plans, but this picture kinda
  rocks.  Sent to me by my (by the way very funny) brother:
 

  Linux Golgotha asm work.  Giving up on masmtogas.  Sadly, inline gas
  seems fairly broken (very hard to get it to generate the asm you want).

  Grabbing nasm.  Started converting rendering code to seperate nasm files.
  Slow, but it works.

Sat April 4, 1998

-------------------

  I tried Dominion.  Pretty fun.  Loved the sexy main menu.  I like the
  context-sensitive pop-up menus for the units and the ability to
  make the fast guys crawl so that a formation moves at roughly
  the same speed.  The umbilical thing is a neat approach, and I like
  the qix-like fence-off gameplay.  The default energy beacons don't
  make it worthwhile, but the missile/machine-gun towers definitely do.

  If I had any negative feedback, unfortunately, it would be that the
  artwork is a little wonky, which is really weird, because Ion
  is definitely good at artork (see web site, character sketches,
  etc).  And a small note, but it would be good to tighten up the
  responsiveness of the units to mouse clicks at the destination.
  Trying to think of a quick hack to test it out.  Maybe kick up
  some dust, animating some dust sprites over the unit in question
  for about half a second?  Maybe do verbal feedback as per usual
  but with a click or beep right at the start (like a CB radio)
  so that the feedback loop is tighter.

  Played Master of Orion II again.  Dunno why.  Today was
  depressing for some reason.  Both Carly and I felt it.  Our
  noodles at Kim Phuong were sticky.  We were crotchety.  And itchy.
  Maybe a shared allergy to the weekends preceding April 15.

Fri April 3, 1998

-------------------

  Tons of crazy coding/design/mgmt.

  The bluebonnets and indian paintbrushes are in bloom on the Hwy 360 median.
  Looks really neat.

  Played w/ cygwin32 this morning.

Thu April 2, 1998

-------------------

  Arg.  Glimpse generated a 30Mb index file from a 55Mb hierarchy of files.
  The searches just don't seem that fast.

  Ssh woes.

Wed April 1, 1998

-------------------

  Got a few leads for several good coder positions yesterday if anyone
  is looking.

  Fixed default & win32 error funcs.
  Added blank => current directory on level's scm file.
  Got Windows version running again.

  Played w/ level some.

Mon March 30, 1998

-------------------

  General & director mtgs.

  Fixed key-mappings.

Sun March 29, 1998

-------------------

  Relearned MMX, figured out how to do colored lighting on K6-3D.  Not free,
    but not bad.  Should also be able to do alpha-blending with both
    verticies and an alpha-channel at a decent clip.

  Played more w/ gcc inline asm.  Figured out how to get masmtogas into
    1 pass and more reliable.

Thu March 26, 1998

-------------------

  Some egcs hacking.  Got Golgotha compiled w/ egcs 1.0.2.  Debug executable
  is a lot smaller which is nice.  Seems to fix some gdb stepping probs we
  were having, too.

  Added help piccy for bomb truck.

  The usual other stuff.

Wed March 25, 1998

-------------------

  Linux Journal put out a good issue this month.  Fav article was Eric
  Raymond's "Helping Netscape Make History," mainly because of an
  included URL to: http://www.earthspace.net/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar.
  It's a great article which sums up the classic "Mythical Man Month" and
  adds Eric's own insights to the improbable Linux phenomenon.  If you're
  any sort of coder, you should check this out.

  Attended the gameholio efnet mtg.

  Wrote automated script to d/l voice mail from work.  Yum.

  Didn't make it into work today.

Tue March 24, 1998

-------------------

  Random biz.

  Worked more on demo level.

  Titanic was a kick-as flick, but it did not deserve Oscars for best
  visual and sound effects.  The flyover scene showed stiff automatons
  on the deck.  The animated people were consistently made fuzzy to hide
  obvious flaws.  And the sound effects were just not that stunning.
  Not their fault.  It's harder to do cool sfx in a movie trying to
  be fairly accurate, set in our past than it is in a movie trying to be
  new, set in a possible future.

  It would have been refreshing to see those guys get up to accept the
  award and say "The Academy has chosen the incorrect award recipient
  in this category this year.  I screwed up the people in the Titanic
  computer animations, I know what my peers did, and they kicked ass
  on (MIB/StarshipTroopers/Contact/5thElement/LostWorld) last year.
  As this little statue is my property now, I'm giving my Oscar to the
  guy who should have won after the show.  Oh, and I'm throwing a BYOB
  party my house after the show..."

Mon March 23, 1998

-------------------

  General & director meetings.

  Edited vehicle balance #'s some more.

  More weird Golgotha-Meets-Reality stuff.  First, there is
  Golgotha's premise, written early last year.  It predicted that
  the US would intercede in Iraq again and try to start another
  baseless war.  Only this time, the European Community is a
  superpower, they got mad, and we find ourselves on the brink of
  World War III.  Well, it turns out in reality, we just started
  threatening Iraq again, and Russia warned us that we might start
  WW III.  Wild.  I hope it doesn't end up the same way.  There's
  a fair bit of bloodshed in Golgotha.  :P

  Now there's this "Army After Next" thing.   US Army First
  Lieutennant Terry Hart wrote asking for permission to use Golgotha
  vehicles as concept art in the "Army After Next" project, a
  study to determine what the Army will be like 30 years from now.
  We're all totally humbled they wanted to use our vehicles.
  Golgotha is set 50 years in the future.  Close enough, I guess.
  I think they're gonna incorporate them into a web site soon.

  Added air unit path and bridge to demo level.  Reported bugs.

Thu March 19, 1998

-------------------

  Got 2 Voodoo II boards from 3DFX today.  Bless your heart, Mr. Bruning!

  SCSI controller on Alpha started barfing on accesses to our backup
  drive.  Moved backups to fart.  Lost backups 3/4-3/9 by accident.
  Having "can't be reader" / "can't be writer" probs w/ gdbm.  Need to
  fix that.  Somehow worked last night though.  Shrug.

  Moved over to Trey's spot.

  Edited vehicle stat balance #'s.

  Organized sfx directory & associated source.

  Showed game at SXSW tradeshow on Sunday, but didn't return Monday or
  Tuesday.  There was a fair crowd, but they mostly weren't game players.
  The most attention-getting booth was the Independent Film Channels.
  Their secret?  Free Beer.

  Sat on SXSW "Games for Grown Ups" Panel.  Audience size was double
  what I thought it would be.  20 people!  It was a fairly fun panel,
  despite never 