Login: ddt            			Name: Dave Taylor
Directory: /u/ddt                   	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Tue Jul 14 14:09 (CDT) on ttyp1 from sgi1
   8 minutes 46 seconds idle
On since Mon Jul 20 12:49 (CDT) on ttyp3 from rope (messages off)
On since Mon Jul 20 13:43 (CDT) on ttyp4 from rope
   9 minutes 38 seconds idle
Mail last read Mon Jul 20 13:47 1998 (CDT)
Plan:

My steamy log.

Mon July 20, 1998

-------------------

  Conventional biz wisdom says you shouldn't announce this sorta thing,
    but I do so because of an annoying decency streak.  So before
    the rumors start to fly, I should announce that Crack is in deep
    financial shit.  We're not in debt and refuse to enter debt, but we
    just ran out of cash and are not making payroll.  We have a lot of
    potential opportunities, but the easy ones tend to be short-term
    band-aid-ish opportunities that detract from the company mission,
    which is Golgotha, Golgotha, and oh yes, Golgotha.  Those of us
    financially stable enough to weather some time without being paid
    will stay on.  We're all confident the money will come in, including
    those of us who can't afford the loss of income.  There is just too
    much value in the project, it's inexpensive to complete, and there
    are too many opportunities even outside Golgotha.  But two of us,
    Gene & Stephen, don't have the reserves to miss a single payroll,
    so I'd like to help place them at other companies.  Gene is a simply
    brilliant composer, and it will totally hurt to lose him.  I count
    my lucky stars that we at least got the game's soundtrack done.
    Whoever gets Gene wins The Big Prize.  I've worked with a few great
    composers, including Bobby Prince, Thomas Dolby, and Trent Reznor,
    and I know what I'm talking about.  Gene is the shit.  Stephen is
    an absolute expert at all things military, passionate about it,
    and a damn good artist when it comes to modelling, texturing,
    and animating the same.  He's a consistent source of excellent,
    pragmatic design ideas, he's ex-military, and a perfect employee
    to groom as a lead designer or producer.  You can check out his
    portfolio & resume on his home page.  Give me (or them) a write
    if interested.  I pride myself on rolling in all the good resumes,
    and these two guys are real winners.  My e-mail is ddt@crack.com.
    Theirs are gene@crack.com and stephen@crack.com.  Anyway, wanted to
    dispell any rumors that we've "closed our doors."  We've tightened
    our belts, we're now working on our personal dimes, and our eyes
    have a few more bags under them, but Crack isn't yet headed for the
    crapper.

Thu July 16, 1998

-------------------

  This is a long plan entry but pure content.  No rambling.  Promise.
    It's RFC's like these that make life worthwhile.

  Working Name: CGDC Hard Core Programmer Conference
  Place: Austin, TX
  Date: November
  Justification:
    It took some name-calling, but I think I got Miller Freeman
    to buckle and give us a full-day game conference just for
    programmers.  Coders have different needs.  We have no time,
    not even for eating lunch out.  We don't have time to hear
    about the latest plug-ins for Photoshop, to hear about the latest
    design methodologies, or to attend round-tables on interactivity.
    We are under the gun to write code, lots of code, cool code,
    fast code, debugged code, and the only conference that is going
    to make us better at our jobs will be one that addresses these
    issues directly.
  The Event:
    I'm working with MFI to create the content for a full day of talks
    specifically designed for game coders.  It's a packed schedule.
    I'm gunning for a solid 12 hours (up to 11 so far), no lunch
    period (either take food to a talk or skip a talk), only hard-core
    programming topics, and a seperate bring-your-own-computer room where
    we can help each other debug, show off, etc.  This is the real thing.
    Pansies not welcome.  I've put a list of potential topics on my
    home-page.  See below.  If you're interested in speaking on any
    of these topics, either alone or in a group with others, write me.
    If you have ideas for other topics of interest to you, please write
    me with those, too.  Not all of these topics require that you be in
    the game industry.  We have until August 31 to get commits from the
    speakers, so it's now or never.  I'll be writing/calling a lot of
    you personally to see if you want to speak on this or that, but if
    you're keen on a specific topic, don't wait for me to write.
  Austin Hype:
    This isn't my department, but I love Austin.  Austin is a cool
    place for this stuff because in November, the weather is great,
    like spring in most places.  And the hotels here are dirt cheap
    compared to you-know-where.  Ditto on the food.  And now there
    are direct flights from SF & SJ.  And most of the hotels have
    Spankovis... Spectravision.
  Food Puzzle:
    If you're fond of Scott Miller's puzzles, I've got a doozy for you.
    The Austin Convention Center, like all convention centers, has rules
    about food.  You've gotta eat theirs.  And their food is really
    incredibly expensive, jacking up the price of your admission like
    you were having dinner at a 4-star restaurant.  But doing lunch in
    downtown Austin takes up extremely valuable coder time, and it might
    be complicated further by weather.  So the puzzle is, how do we feed a
    few hundred coders w/o taking the shaft, and without forcing everybody
    to eat at the same time?  Submit your answer to ddt@crack.com.
  The Mystery Poll:
    Yes, this is why I took that poll about coder hours and marital
    status.  I learned as a result that most coders spent most of their
    life working.  Sleeping, eating, and dating combined came in
    a distant second.
  Topic Ideas:
    See http://crack.com/about/ddt/hard_core.html for the list of topic
    ideas.
  Inspiration:
    This day of coding was inspired by the hacker meetings often held
    in high school cafeterias, where we first saw our futures in the
    magical new Amiga, Apple ][, Commodore 64, Mac, and PC, each a world
    unto its own to explore, worlds that made us realize that eating,
    sleeping, and excreting would come second for the rest of our
    lives, or at least until about 35.
  Warning:
    If yer a press person, you can't reprint any of this without
    my permission, and you won't have my permission, unless you're
    slashdot, because, well, duh.  MFI is the final word and will
    do the official announcing.  This plan entry is to get feedback
    from coders.

  Amen, John.  MacOS is broken.  Rhapsody rules.

  God Damn.  I want to meet the artists on Rage of Mages.  Just plain
    delicious!

Mon July 13, 1998
<br