Login: ddt            			Name: ddt
Directory: /home2/ddt               	Shell: /usr/local/bin/bash
Last login Sat Oct 24 15:06 (CDT) on ttyp1 from mnet09-14.austin
New mail received Sat Oct 24 14:21 1998 (CDT)
     Unread since Fri Oct 23 23:06 1998 (CDT)
Plan:
Sat October 24, 1998

--------------------

  Ah.  Mirrors up.  Thanks, guys!

Fri October 23, 1998

--------------------

  Site crashing... need mirrors.  Help.

Thu October 22, 1998

--------------------

  To those of you grabbing the source, you only need golgotha_src.zip
    to get started.  Also, we goofed on the music name, it's
    "Helsinki, Finland", not "Helsinki, Sweden".  *blush*

  Okey doke.  Sending out the big press release now.  Should take a few
    hours to get out to everyone on the mailing list.  The two-sentence
    abreviated news is at:
             http://www.crack.com/golgotha_release

Wed October 21, 1998

--------------------

  Wow.  Sometimes, e-mail is just too good to keep to yourself:

> Date: Wed, 21 Oct 1998 11:51:42 -0500
> From: Chao-Hsiang Wang <seanwang-521@ou.edu>
> Reply-To: wang7006@ou.edu
> To: webmaster@crack.com
> Subject: Crack
> 
> Can you tell me a good place where I can buy some crack? Crank will do,
> but I really need a good hit of crack right now. Have you ever seen the
> monkeys? They have all the crack they want. Also, do you have the
> catalog to order some Twinkle-Twat? I am running low on my supply and my
> crack is becoming inflamed.
> 
> Best crack,
> 
> Me


Tue October 20, 1998

--------------------

  Got a friend at a game company looking for a web designer and a web
    programmer.  Got a friend of a friend looking for a contract 3d
    programmer.  E-mail me at ddt@crack.com if interested.

  Woah there, nelly.  Do me a favor.  If you're writing about that web
    site designer position, send me a list of URL's of sample work.

Mon October 19, 1998

--------------------

  It's my second wedding anniversery.  Yay!  I'm still madly in love
    with my sweetie, still just as excited about our future together,
    and I still think I got the last good one.  Woohoo!

Fri October 16, 1998

--------------------

  BitchX, take the Genesis 3D engine seriously.  It's cool.  It may not be
    GPL'd, but it really is free.  Not to worry about the licensing
    agreement.  A little bird told me that Eclipse is in excellent
    financial health.  Think of their engine as a "loss leader".  Their
    revenue comes in through very different avenues.

Thu October 15, 1998

--------------------

  Can anyone get on www.chipanalyst.com?  Haven't been able to read
    the Merced, K7, and M3 details.  I understand there are reports
    on there?  Someday when I grow up, I'm gonna attend Microprocessor
    Forum like a real man!

Wed October 7, 1998

--------------------

  I recently had the privilege of doing a design review and technical
    design review of a game in early development stages, a game that I
    had great hopes for, a game fully backed by a strong publisher & a
    strong development team, groomed to be a flagship product.

  The design was incredibly scary, mostly on technical grounds.  It was
    a feature list gone horribly, horribly wrong.  It was attemping to
    compete in arenas that the company didn't even have a ticket to
    attend as a spectator.  And despite being two inches thick, it
    didn't have a single paragraph about how to tackle the immense
    software engineering and asset management challenges brought on by
    the stupendous feature list, which unchecked, would threaten to
    create one of those famous, undead 5-year monster projects.  And
    no mention of 99% of the actual content, for which there is an
    elaborate technical design... created in a vacuum.  Arrrrrrgh!

  As always with horribly confidential information, I can't say squat
    about it, which is incredibly frustrating in this case, because I am
    morally certain that I am not only alone in my analysis, but that my
    counter-proposal is what the public actually wants.  And they're
    going to ignore all the most important parts.  I just know it.
    Truly, truly frustrating.  Never fall in love with a game!  Eh.
    Maybe it'll rock.  What do I know?

  Nevertheless...

  Today is a day whose beauty is one of the few to approach my wedding
    day.  It's sunny and cool and perfect, so I opened my doors to let
    in the wonderful air.  At 4:37pm, a very large roach crawled into my
    front door.  I was apalled.  It crawled onto my rug, so I stomped on
    it with my boot.  Pushed down hard but didn't want to twist as I didn't
    want roach guts on my carpet.  Lifted up, and of course it scurried off
    in a panic, under my manilla folder labelled "Health Insurance."  I
    didn't care so much about said folder, so I stomped on the folder, this
    time really hard.  The rat bastard was still alive, limping a little
    but running like crazy now.  He went under Carly's desk and paused.
    That was my opportunity.  I lept into the kitchen like a panther, grabbed
    a teacup, and pounced back.  My prey sat motionless hoping to escape
    notice, but the teacup won.  Yes!  I folded up a piece of paper, slid
    it under the teacup, and walked the trap out to our balcony where I
    simultaneously removed the paper and arced the cup in an effort to toss
    him out of my house.  It was one of those flying mutant roaches!  He took
    flight halfway down and alit in a tree.  Then to my horror, I heard
    movement in the tree and realized the bastard was preparing to fly back
    in.  But I was mistaken.  It was a bluejay.  It was pursuing the roach.
    The roach fell to the ground.  The bluejay followed, then snatched it
    up and made a proper mess of it with its deadly bill.  Bluejays rock.
    Today is simply beautiful.

Wed September 30, 1998

--------------------

  [NOTICE] Seeking Engine Programming Laboratory contributors

    I need representatives from 2D video card (or chipset)
    manufacturers, 3D video card (or chipset) manufacturers, sound
    card (chipset) & joystick/controller manufacturers, and CPU
    manufacturers to attend open forums at the Engine Programming
    Lab on November 16 in Austin.  It's a session where a bunch
    of, well, game engine programmers are going to overwhelm you
    with opinions and wish-lists for future features and optimizations
    for your products.  Plz contact me ASAP at ddt@crack.com if
    you work at one of these types of companies and would like to
    attend.

  Long time, no chat.  Sorry about that.  Got some fairly, oh, big news
    coming up real soon, though.