Account Name:  charliew
Email address: charliew@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Having a blast with Dark Age of Camelot. I had no interest in picking up a MMORPG until maybe Star Wars Galaxies, but this one caught my eye within five minutes of watching Keith play and I've been very happy with it. The thing I like the most so far is it seems like it doesn't require quite the heavy heavy time investment like EQ does to enjoy your play and feel like you are accomplishing something. I think a big part of this is because they have just much larger numbers to reach, but they allow you to go up much faster. So, while my trade skill may max out at 1000 versus EQ's 200, I go up about 5 times as fast so it *feels* more accomplshed. Also the experience bubbles are broken into 10 instead of 5 so again, you just feel better about the progress even if in reality you might be going slower.

Not to mention I just really like the way everything in the game looks. I look forward to seeing what happens to little Jennypaka FunfzehnSWF as she growns in her Spiritmaster skills. I am happy that I get to have a bit of the enchanter gameplay that I really enjoyed in Everquest (about the only character I actually liked in that game) and get to have a pet that is very viable.

For anybody playing who does have pets who miss the /pet commands, you can hotkey all the buttons on your pet window to the hotkey bar by holding SHIFT and clicking on it. This includes the "Follow" "Stay" "Defend" type buttons as well. Made a world of difference in the ease of use with the pet.

If you are waffling on whether to play it or not (like you Warren), I definitely suggest going ahead and taking the plunge. At the very least you can play it for the free month and put in 20-40 hours. Compared to every other game you buy that's not a bad investment.

In terms of combat complexity it seems pretty well on par with Everquest (I just know the Mythic guys are grating at my references to Everquest if they happen to read this, but they should take it as a compliment since DAoC is the first game to remotely challenge Everquest and honestly pull a large segment of the player base away).
	
    