Account Name:  charliew
Email address: charliew@finger.3drealms.com
----------
DALLAS, Texas, Dec. 1 The music industry is proud to announce today that Britney Spears has gone gold. Developed by momma and poppa Spears, Britney is yet another installment in the famous one hit wonder chick club (including such greats as Tiffany and Debbie Gibson) and is designed to be the final word in just how much pop music horny 20-50 year old men will buy in the hopes that the pictures inside of their favorite lolita will be almost nude. Britney, who has been sent away for more breast manufacturing, is expected to be available on December 2, 1999 at a suggested retail price of... well... YOU can't afford her so don't bother.

Britney is poised to take the world by storm with the most advanced 3-D enlargements and viciously satisfying "gameplay" to date. This pop icon features the quality and excitement of the music industry's past blockbusters along with more breast action, more heart rate raising intensity, and more argument for lowering the legal age of consent in states such as Texas.

"Britney goes beyond being an illegal sex object that we use to milk the masses of their money, and is a cultural phenomenon unto herself," said Justin Timberlake, Lipsynch master of 'N Sync. "We at 'N Sync have been beta testing this product for quite some time now... and although we think we might have worn her out a bit (thus why she simply doesn't look as good now as she did in her school girl outfit) she still has plenty to offer the group of people who made her rich, and now they are legally allowed to admit they like her curved surfaces. Furthermore, the multiplayer action with Britney is just something that needs to be seen to believe. With the 5 of us at 'N Sync going at it each and every night, well... what can we say but WOW!"

Britney's enhanced chest displays realistic 3-D environments for you to bury your face in using advanced features such as curved surface rendering and high detail textures. Britney will amaze fans all over the world with visual features such as a nice booty, long firm legs and specular lighting from the sweat on her stomach after concerts and during photo shoots.
	
    