Account Name:  charliew
Email address: charliew@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Just got done beating Anachronox (about 27 hours in-game time, which doesn't count me going back and redoing stuff, etc)... and I had an absolute *blast*.

Once I patched up to 1.01, got Service Pack 2 for Win2k and reverted back from the horrible 1241 drivers from NVidia back to 1200 the game ran great. Lots of little issues and such in the gameplay department really needed some polish but considering the nature of how things went these past few months at Ion/Eidos I'm truly amazed that the game came out in as good of condition as it did. HUGE congrats to the actual developers who made that happen.

I had a great time playing it and it kept pulling me on waiting to see what was going to happen next, etc. I looked forward to playing at the end of the day (that hasn't happened in quite some time for me, I've been a rather jaded gamer for the past couple of years, blah) and now am sitting here wishing I could restart the game but with all the stuff I left off with. Tons of cool dialog, characters, puzzles, situations, cinematics, jokes, locations, etc. Not to mention just very pretty looking visuals the entire way through (go away technophiles, you won't understand).

I have no idea who I'd suggest it to, since I can see why (close minded) hardcore RPG fans might be turned off by it, and anybody who isn't a fan of RPG's might just not have any interest. This was the first turn based RPG I had played along these lines since the original Dragon Warrior though, so that should give some idea of how well it grabbed me despite a general lack of interest at first. I'd almost call this more of an adventure game though since that's where the vast majority of your time is spent.

Long story short... great job Anox team / Tom Hall... I loved your game and efforts. It's a crying shame that we won't be able to see a follow-up from the same team without all the other baggage that is being thrown around right now.

Wieder is entertained on outta here...
	
    