Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Finally broke the iron weaponsmithing barrier.  I'm only up to 140 (not much compared to some of the power smithers up to 200+), but I'm doing all my work through consignment and turning around a huge profit.

Fixed those image links below.

Whoot! I got all of my Absu albums signed.



Here's some Dark Age of Camelot related noise:

Dark Age of Camelot has had an impressive introduction. Netwise, the game is very solid. I never experienced any disconnects or network lag at all. Code wise, the game is very solid. I did experience several bugs, but nothing critical. Gameplay wise, the game is solid and strong, but lacking a few details of polish that could turn off the more hardcore EverQuest players.

I'll go through a few things. 

First, the trade skill system rocks. It's not too hard to advance skills and you can instantly make useful stuff. You could easily use your newbie money to make yourself a few useful pieces of armor. On the downside, it is expensive to raise later on. Particularly when trying to make the jump from Bronze to Iron metalworking. You go from about 2s a stack to 23s a stack. Ouch! Also, because there is no auction channel and because the outdoor zone is large and spread out it is very difficult to sell your goods. They really need some kind of automated system where a crafter can make items and put them on a vendor to be sold (but not one vendor NPC per person, as UO did). 

Note when I say "its expensive" I'm talking as a level 10 player.  I'm probably ahead of myself with my 130 weaponsmithing skill.

Combat isn't bad, but the hate system isn't as solid as it could be. Often monsters will aggro on noncombatants without any clear reason. Even if your cleric isn't casting, it could get aggrod on. There is no taunt system, other than a few special attacks that have taunting attached to them... They don't seem particularly effective. Thanes get an attack that LOWERS aggro, which doesn't seem to make much of a difference. Also, the mez spells can't be overwritten, so you have to double up mez spells from different levels to hold a mez. This took a while for us to figure out. Their root spell utterly sucks and is useless in group combat.

The various exp bonuses are cool.  Our group figured out we could get a bigger Group Bonus for chain aggroing monsters.  This is a neat twist.  As one of our players mentioned "Ooh, we've found some depth!" ;)

The combo powers for melee classes are cool, but very hard to pull off. The bash attack that I double up on a crushing blow that only can be used after a parry is nearly impossible to pull off and doesn't seem particularly advantageous even then. I would think a triple combo attack would be devastating when properly executed.

As for my thane...he's a great puller although I wish my lightning cast had more range. The thane power list looks like I've seen the extent of my character. I'll get more powerful pulling spells, but no new abilities of interest other than Intercept. I was hoping for more weather based utility spells like a stunning wind blast.  I'll not assume though.  With so many character classes I'll hope there's some interesting variance awaiting me (and if not, maybe something we'll get patched in later on).

Overall, the casting seems to mimic everquest with no real advances in spell effects. I would think that this game would try to innovate in that direction, but they don't seem to. You have mez, root, nuke, AE, etc. There are a million ways to make spell effects (just play some MtG) why doesn't this game try to do something interesting and new?

Class balance seems to be extremely well done.  Mythic must have made the most of their beta sessions.  Everyone in our group (Thane, Berserker, Healer, Spiritmaster, Shaman, Runemaster) was able to contribute significantly to the action.  As far as I can tell, whatever class you pick (in Midgard at least) you'll be able to contribute to your group.

There is a distinct lack of slash commands. No slash command for pet orders, attack, etc. This means you have to click your interface or attack hotkey, which kind of sucks. Since there aren't any %t style text replacements, you can't make useful macros either. The /assist command is very weak. It seems slow to respond, often doesn't work, and will only work when the target is in combat mode. 

Their death system seems particularly forgiving. Especially considering that Midgard healers get a res at level 10 and you can't lose a level from exp loss.  Getting a res = saving money, doing a /release = saving exp.  At least at the low levels.  Since you get a res around level 10, I imagine there are higher level exp reses.

The task/quest system rocks the house down. Doing quests for the low levels utterly pulled me into the game. The trade skill based quests really kick ass. 

If anyone from Mythic is reading this slap your quest designers on the back.  They kick a lot of ass.  At times I felt I was playing a single player game with lots of other people participating...that's a compliment by the way. :P

I think the game is very fun. It's small though...I wonder if I will lose interest because of the small amount of locations to explore. Also, you can't explore the other kingdoms without going PvP, so that really cuts back on the amount of playable territory.  (I'm not overtly against PvP...I just don't know how much I'll want to get into it.)

Throughout the game, *Gus* and I noticed many things that DAoC does for you that it shouldn't. 

* Learning how to swim is free gameplay, but in this game you cannot drown. 
* Learning how to sense heading is free gameplay, but this game automatically gives yout he ability. 
* Tanks don't have to worry about keeping their target in sight if they use /stick. (Just learned this today.) 
* The game auto rewards everyone in the group a quest item. 

I don't know. There are a million such nits that could be picked.
 
Also, rudeness seems to be the word of the day. Since there is no group lock on experience, pulling in a dungeon or populated area means your target is fair game to anyone in the area. It really SUCKS that there is no group locking. I hope they change that.  Exp shouldn't be rewarded to non group players if they didn't out damage the group.

Also they need to increase the spawn rate of Gib. Why the hell they put a multi-quest critical rare spawn on a hour+ spawn timer in a newbie zone I'll never know. If you do happen to see him, he'll usually get whacked by a newbie hunting in the area before you can even get close. And it isn't like anyone in the game respects camps because there is no global chat to say "CAMPING GIB" in.

Maybe if they had a Camp Monitor menu like their kick ass Group Finder.  Register a camp and see what's free all with a click of a button :P

Of course, we stole our share of quest kills. Some girl was camping the escaped thralls for exp and we needed them for quest drops. We walked in and took our share MUCH to the girl's chagrin. ;) I admit this violates my sense of multiplayer chivalry, but she claimed it was the only place she could get exp, which it most certainly wasn't.

Overall I highly recommend the game.  The launch is very stable and there's a lot of fun gameplay to be explored.  You certainly won't be bored in your low levels, since you won't just be killing yard trash.  Instead, you'll have a nearly constant flow of quests and tasks to keep you busy between grouping sessions.


