Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Ugh.

Electronic character death really sucks.  Tonight I have, for the time being, put my EverQuest character to rest.  This isn't because of another game...I have played a lot of Dark Age, but always intended to return to EQ at least with the Luclin expansion and play a bit more.  After all, I've spent about a year building up Borjoyzee, my mage.  Not as much as some players without a doubt, but still a good amount of time.

No, Borjoyzee's adventure has come to a premature end because of my own memory failure.  Apparently I had died one night and thought to myself "I'll just get my corpse later."  Unfortunately, later turned to be three months later.  Ugh.

Now all of my equipment...my hard earned Mage focus items and other treasures...are gone.  Decayed and blown away with the winds of The Overthere.  I completely forgot to log on and loot my items so they wouldn't disappear and now they are gone.

A small portion of my equipment was given to me by other players, but there was a lot that I worked alone to get.  My mage focus items were my most prized possession and I got them for the most part by myself.  I don't really feel motivated to reaquire that stuff, even though I'm much higher level now and could probably get it easily.

Bleh!

Well, it was fun while it lasted.  I probably won't play Luclin at this point.  It would be too repetitive to rebuild Borjoyzee and a waste of time to mess with a new character.

On a brighter note, I got an X-Box and I'm enjoying it.  I was hoping for more from Halo, but the cooperative mode seems to be an interesting option.  (I'm burned out on straight shooters...I want interactivity.)  Halo has some very nice looking tech though and is probably the best console shooter I've played.  Munch's is a hell of a lot of fun.  DOA3 is cool also.  The launch titles are, over all, top notch.  I have high hopes for the machine in the future.  And seeing the 50,000+ blocks free on the harddrive is neat.  Hope some interesting use for that shows up in the future.  At least I'll never have to delete a save-game again.

Also been playing a lot of PS2 games.  It's definitely the top of the console pile right now.  Too many cool games out for it.

Too many games to play in general.  This is my list of stuff I'm playing:

PC:
Conquest: Frontier Wars
Wolfenstein 3D
Dark Age of Camelot
Civ 3
Yuri's Revenge
Operation Flashpoint

PS2:
Grand Theft Auto 3
Silent Hill 2
Ico

XBox:
Halo
DOA3
Munch

Sort of burned out on Dark Age.  The dungeons are small and disappointing.  There aren't really any epic quests or adventures on the same scale as EverQuest.  The lack of zone-wide communication means that it's hard to talk to people to get to know them, or establish camps.  In fact, camp stealing still seems to be an annoyingly common behavior.  My character is a level 22 Thane with around 500 weaponcrafting.  I raised the 300 gold to buy my guild logo all by myself and now that I've done that, I don't really have any focus or purpose.  There isn't much to achieve or shoot for.  Maybe I should try out one of the other realms.

Sigh.