Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------
The SOTNC black metal fest was this weekend in San Antonio.  It was a lot of fun.  Absu played their first show in the US in four and a half years.  After they played four songs, they unplugged their guitars and threw down their drum sticks and left the stage.  Everyone started chanting "Absu! Absu!" and stomping their feet.  It may be coincidence, but I was near the front and I yelled "Bring us the Highland Tyrant Attack!" really loudly and they immediately came back on stage and picked up their shit.  Proscriptor said "This is the Highland Tyrant Attack" and they broke into what is one of their best live songs.  Everyone was shouting "you will hear my command when cries never fade" and "This is the Highland Tyrant Attack!"  Very fun :)

It was cool seeing Proscriptor do his signature pre-show drum stick focusing thing while the other members of the band hold their fists out.  Another song they played was "Swords and Leather" which, again, is a great song for the live crowd.  Everybody was yelling "YAAAARRRGH!" when Proscriptor introduced the song with "This is a song about swords and leather!"  He didn't sing the warcry of "Slaughter!" so everyone in the crowd could fill it in for him.  Absu really knows how to play a show.

This also marks the first appearance of their new guitarist.  Absu only played five songs because the new guy is still learning their material, but apparently he's good enough that they felt they could re-enter the scene after a half-decade hiatus.

Thornspawn also rocked the place with a lot of new material and the signature war cry "Wrath of fucking war!"

Inquisition was the final band to play (out of ten or so, I'm only mentioning my favorites).  They were really very cool and I was able to talk extensively to Dagoth about everything from his song writing to video games.  Inquisition is truly one of the greatest American black metal bands to enter the scene.  Dagoth's stage presence is undeniable.  Hearing them play some of the best songs off of "Infernal Regions..." was truly an experience.  Everyone was banging really hard when they played "Summoned by ancient wizards under a black moon."  They played a lot of stuff off their upcoming release as well, which sounds like it'll be pretty kick ass (on Warhammer records).

I picked up a ton of loot...shirts and CDs and got to talk to a lot of bands.  The cool thing about the American black metal scene...and particularly the Texas scene...is that so many bands are openly approachable.  In fact, I had talked to Proscriptor previously at a record signing and this time he actually came up to me to say hi.  I was floored by that.  Absu are the kings of metal.

I made the mistake of not wearing my ear plugs during the Inquisiton set.  I love that band so much I couldn't stand to deny myself the full experience.  Unfortunately, I think I over did it and my ears are still ringing.  I hope I didn't cause myself any permanent damage.

There have been, throughout my life, many bands I wish I had gotten a chance to see live, but never will because they broke up or stopped working together.  Minor Threat.  The Leeb and Fulber days of Front Line Assembly.  Emperor.  At least now I've seen Absu and Inquisiton.  Now all I want to see is Immortal and Bal-Sagoth.
	
    