Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------

Nothing game related here.  Just gushing about my new ride. 



My 1997 Mazda Miata has finally moved on after four years of faithful service.  I had been interested in getting a new car for some time, and had been doing research, but only just now acted on my interests.  Last Wednesday I traded in the Miata and bought a 2001 Honda S2000.

This car rocks.

My favorite type of car is the roadster.  I have been into roadsters ever since high school.  I bought my Miata used in '98 before making the road trip to Raleigh, NC when I started working at Epic.  The NC plate was "Codemage," which unfortunately had to go when I moved to Texas. The Miata was a cool car, but low power...and seemed to be developing a few problems.  I wasn't in love with it...I didn't wash/wax it myself or take any particular effort to take care of it.  It was transportation.

Since it had been paid off for a while I started looking at other possibilities.  On Wednesday, I intended to go to a Toyota dealer to check out the MR2.  That morning I found out a local Honda dealer had a slightly used 2001 S2000 in stock.  I went to check it out and fell in love.
Everything just seemed to go my way in the negotiation and I had the car.  It was a lease before and had 3400 miles on it.  In show room condition.

A slight correction though.  I didn't drive the car off the lot.  I can't drive a stick!  I had Keith come along with me to assist in that respect...
since then I've been driving quite a bit every day and no longer stall the thing.  I haven't gotten enough courage to go and engage the VTEC yet
though.  I need some more experience first. ;)

The S2000 has the highest output per liter of any normally aspirated engine in the world.  120 HP per liter...2 liters 4 cyls...240 HP at a curb weight
of only 2810 lbs.  The car redlines at 9000 rpms!  Rear wheel drive, no traction control, no stability management.  It has a full display digital tachometer.  And above all, it has a red engine start button!  (Oh and the body styling rocks as well.)

The car is Silverstone Metallic with a Red/Black interior.

On Sunday I washed and waxed the car.  I use Zaino wax products.  A layer of Z-1 bonder, Z-2 wax, and finish with the
Z-6 glossy spray.  You can get Zaino from the Fastech bodys hop if you live in the Dallas metro area.

I've been spending a lot of time on the S2000 International forums researching and gathering information.  This is an
excellent community for S2000 owners and enthusiasts.  They also have a really nice set of FAQs on caring for the car.

WHOOOOOT!  I'm really excited about this car!!!!!!!!!!

Here are some pics of the new ride.  I ordered some custom S2000 badges from Rick's that should come in tomorrow.
My choices for personalized plates are "HENTAI" "CHIBI" and "GAIJIN" although I seriously doubt I'll get any of them.  If those fail, I'll probably
go for "NUKEM2" (that would normally be Scott Miller's number, but we won't tell him if I take it.  Hehe).