Login name: arkiva    			In real life: REINHART
Directory: /homec/arkiva            	Shell: /usr/bin/ksh
Last login Mon Jul 27 16:38 on ttyrb from kenny.ittc.ukans
Project: Go away.
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
greenmarine@planetunreal.com
Contract Programmer, Epic MegaGames
Contract Programmer, Creative Carnage
Lead Programmer, Lead Designer, Skaarj Corps

Monday, August 10, 1998
-----------------------

Unreal GameSpy Status:
David Wright and I worked out the last bugs in Unreal GameSpy
support and I've sent what I believe to be a solid build
up to Tim.   

Wednesday, July 22, 1998
------------------------

Unreal GameSpy Status:
Looking very good on this front.  I am adapting Unreal to
GameSpy's new protocol.  Should have the initial code
ready by Monday.  I will have documentation available by
then also, so other developers working on "spy" style
server query programs can work with Unreal.  The protocol
is easy to use and pretty adaptable.  

After the GameSpy work is done, I will be rewriting the
ServerBeacon code so that servers stop pinging the broadcast
every 0.5 seconds.  Instead, there will be an initial
ping when the server begins and then after that only
pings in response to client requests.  The new code will be
drop in compatible with the existing menu system and will
be transparent to the player.

Skaarj Corps Status:
Log: Success: Compiled 19333 line(s), 1973 statement(s).

Its getting pretty big.

Andrew has implemented a new message interface.  Public
'chat' messages go to a main window.  Team messages go
into a second window.  Events go into a third.
Each window is color coded.  There are commands to scroll
through windows, select a specific window, and scroll
windows up or down.  

You can set the "response" level for the events window.
This way, you can force it to drop on any message (death
messages, item pickup) or just on game vital messages 
(Titan death, heart return, etc).

The windows have transparent backgrounds so they don't block
your view significantly.  Also, there are no more centerprinted
green messages.  Everything goes to a window allowing the
player to control how much he/she sees.  I am thinking of adding
window logging controls when Tim releases the DLL headers
publically.

What else?  The Warrior Class is finished.  Other classes need
animation fixes and tweaks.  This will get done this weekend.

The levels are looking great.  Our smallest level is going to be
at least five times the size of 2fort4.  The mappers are making
good use of the "Unreal" feel.  Stuart "Vovin" Presleys level
is simply amazing.

