Login name: arkiva    			In real life: REINHART
Directory: /homec/arkiva            	Shell: /usr/bin/ksh
Last login Wed Jul 29 05:18 on ttyp0 from dv052s53.lawrenc
Project: Getting everything in FF7.
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
greenmarine@planetunreal.com
Contract Programmer, Epic MegaGames
Contract Programmer, Creative Carnage
Lead Programmer, Lead Designer, Skaarj Corps

Opinions expressed in this .plan are not the
opinions of Epic MegaGames, buddy.

Tuesday, July 28, 1998
----------------------

BE WARNED: There is some new Quake2 client side bot
out there.  Players using it exhibit uncontrolled
spinning.  (Like they are constantly turning real
fast.)  I usually play on the Legacy Pasadena
Deathmatch server and tonight two players,
QueLude and Anonymous, were using bots.
Anonymous continuously shot railgun rounds out
of his ass (quite funny if it wasn't you getting
hit) while moving the opposite direction.
QueLude just spun around really fast and sucked.
(Unless he had a railgun, then he just sat there
spinning until some stray shot took him out).
I could just fucking KILL those damn bot authors,
they are ruining my favorite server.

---

Just wanted to quickly say that Sin is a lot of fun.
I like the "cops going after terrorists" feel of the
single player.  I feel like I'm in an action movie
when I play it.  I can't wait for the full release.

Also, check out "Saving Private Ryan" if you haven't
yet.  Its the best war movie I've ever seen (and
probably the most violent movie I've ever seen).
Watching the action scenes got me thinking.  I would
really like to make/play a FPS that puts like kind of
stress on the player (well, you know what I mean.
I don't want my players to get shell shock from playing the
game, but I wouldn't mind if they SHOOK while playing it.)
The only games I have ever trembled while playing
were Doom and System Shock.  Obviously that's hard
to obtain with an online experience, but its certainly
possible for the single player.  Sin seems to start
to get there.  Some situations in Sin reward the player
for using intelligent tactics, as opposed to gun-ho
assault.  

One of the things in "Saving Private Ryan" that adds
to the tension are the sound effects.  Real time
doppler on audio effects and texture based hit sounds
will hopefully be something that is eventually included
in the evolution of FPS games.  At the beginning of the
movie, you see one soldier freeing himself of his
harness underwater on D-Day.  Around him is near silence,
until his head breaches the surface and the sounds
of the war strike you fully in the face.  The sounds of
rounds striking metal and flesh is clear and terrifying.
After all, isn't a sniper a more frightening opponent
when you can HEAR his bullets striking near you, but
you can't see him?

The ambient radio effects in Quake2 and the ambient cop
/terrorist chatter in Sin start to move in this direction.  (Hell,
nearly every FPS game has ambient sound to increase
immersion.)  However both are pretty repetitive.  Perhaps
a system by which various messages/radio static/bullet
sounds/explosions and so forth are all randomly generated
in different combinations and with different levels of
proximity to the player?  Adding in multiple scripted
sequences of friend versus enemy (in which the combat audio
would blend with ambience) would leave the player wondering
what he is going to run into around the next corner.
(Is the .50 caliber machine gun really there, or just
an ambient backdrop like last time?  Surpise surprise
my little Allied soldierboy.)