Login name: arkiva    			In real life: REINHART
Directory: /homec/arkiva            	Shell: /usr/bin/ksh
Last login Fri Aug  7 15:23 on ttypb from port01.max1.tope
Project: Getting everything in FF7.
Plan:
My neighbor is out in his backyard building a wrestling ring
to send in to the Tonight Show so that the Nitro Girls will
come over to his house.

My life just keeps getting weirder.





Greatest Bosses of All Time?

Here are my top five picks:

5. That Giant Crab, Master Blaster
   This is a boss that takes pure skill to defeat.  Master Blaster
   is a limited lives, limited continue game and by the time
   you get to the Giant Crab you are really low on lives and
   conintues.  Fighting him is pure adrenaline.  As you damage
   him, he's attacks become more difficult to dodge, taking
   incredible amounts of dexterity to overcome.

4. Heihachi Mishima, Tekken
   I just like Heihachi.  His story is told without words, through
   the rendered cutscenes...but he has an attitude nonetheless.
   "Grow old with Heihachi."

3. Cyber Demon, Doom
   When you first run into this guy you drop a load.  Talk about
   a great boss.  The Cyber Demon characterizes the Doom design
   philosophy.

2. Kefka, Final Fantasy 3
   I like bosses with attitude...character bosses.  A boss isn't
   something you shouldn't see until the end.  Square Soft
   knows how to do bosses.  Kefka is an madman with complete
   attitude.  By the end of the game, you WANT to kill him.

1. Sephiroth, Final Fantasy 7
   The best boss I have seen yet.  Better than Kefka, Sephiroth
   takes you on a roller coaster.  Who is he? What does he want?
   His intentions and evil become all to clear as you progress
   through the game.  You don't just want to kill him, you
   want to annihilate him.  

Had a hard time coming up with memorable bosses.

OMG, FLA's Oblivion is godlike!!

I noticed unrealed.com has a TCPLink tutorial available here:
http://www.unrealed.com/unrealscript/tutorials/tcplink/

This comes a little early as I am currently in the process of completely
rewriting TCPLink.  I would urge caution in working with the current
TCPLink class, because the new TCPLink class is quite a bit different.
Different in a good way, though.  Its much easier to use.  I've got
most of the new TCPLink code written, but testing is going slow because
every time I break something in sockets Windows blows away my PPP
connection, so I have to dial up again, change the code and start
testing again.  Yuck.

Anyway, I suggest you take the existing TCPLink class with
a grain of salt as it will not only be changing, but the current
implementation doesn't always work correctly.  I hope to have my changes
done by tommorrow and off to Tim.  I'm a little behind schedule,though,
because I lost most of my C: drive and had to reinstall windows98 (oh boy!).

(I keep all my gaming stuff and development stuff on a seperate drive.)

I got my two Wicked3D 12 Mb Voodoo2s and H3d set today.  $499 for
the whole deal. Wh00p.  Playing Unreal and Quake2 in SLI is amazing
and the H3D is really cool.  I'm going to see if I can't dig up some
Glide demos to play with the H3D.  Oh, I also got a 21" monitor...
I'm never going back!  Save up for one of these puppies, they rock.
I got the Nokia 445Xi.  Now I need to run out and buy an 8meg APG
video card, because 1024x768 is way too big.  

Hopefully I'll be able to last a while now without having to upgrade.  
(Yeah right, as soon as you think you're top of the line, John Carmack
or somebody comes along and raises the requirements again. Hehe.
I can just imagine myself shelling out for some Voodoo3 64 Mb SLI
speed demon and liking it.  Sheesh.)

Now if this Battlezone Large Assests file would just finish downloading...
(Modems suck.  I want my cable back!)

Games I can't wait for:
	Dune 2000
	C&C: Tiberian Sun
	System Shock 2
	EverQuest
	Fallout 2
	Heavy Gear 2
	Duke Nukem Forever

There are so many games under development right now that look so damn
cool I get excited just thinking about it. 

Oh man, System Shock 2.  Do you think it'll be as good as the first?  The
first is my favorite game of all time.  Nothing compares.  I LOVE
SYSTEM SHOCK.  I'm genuinely surprised that it never got as much
attention as it deserved...this is a game that scares the bejesus
out of me every time I play it.  I love a game that feeds on my fear.
Real fear, not gore fest fear.  (Horror, fear, and terror are
completely different things.)  Fear is something you carry with you.
It pecks at you as your walk around dark corners.  Terror is
an experience...its quick, intense fear.  The System Shock environment
was so immersive that you felt fear...you cared whether you lived or died.

I wonder if deathmatch style games will ever be capable of creating
fear.  Certainly the potential for immersiveness exists.  In a deathmatch,
however, death is a fundamental part of the game's rules.  You can't
fear death in a deathmatch because its a basic part of the learning
experience/play experience.  If you die, just hit fire to respawn.
I suppose you could fear dying in, say, Quake2 or Unreal if there
were big stakes on the line like at a tournament...but then you are
actually fearing failure, not death.  Something to think about.
What would it take to make a multiplayer combat in which:

	- Players fear death and their environment.
	- Players fear other players?
	- There aren't any "denial of play" punishments.

"Denial of play" is where you do something like "no one respawns
until everyone is dead."  I dislike that.  The fun in playing
comes from the playing...you shouldn't fear death because
you can't play if you die.  Hell, I wouldn't fear that, I'd just
get frustrated. :-)

Someone needs to write a book on computer game theory.  Design
philosophy.  I wish more people would update their .plans talking about design
philosophy.  We need more game designers that have solid backgrounds
in psychology and theology.  I know that not everyone likes games
that strike close to home or are emotional roller coasters (granted,
I wouldn't want to play fear games all the time myself.), but I
think that this is an area that still hasn't been tapped.

I like games that run on adrenaline (quake2, unreal), games that run
on thought (civ2, age of empires), and games that run on
a combination of the two (system shock, starcraft).  Seeing that
the two most popular genres are FPS and RTS I think most people
probably agree with this.  Hmmmmm.... 

I better stop, I could write on this stuff forever and I'm a scene
newbie!  Damn, I wish I could get inside Warren Spector's head
and truly become enlightened!  Game design will always hold sway over
technology. 
	
    