Login name: arkiva    			In real life: REINHART
Directory: /homec/arkiva            	Shell: /usr/bin/ksh
Last login Mon Aug 24 12:19 on ttysf from port10.max1.tope
Project: Getting everything in FF7.
Plan:
Brandon Reinhart
Epic MegaGames, Contract Programmer

Monday, August 24, 1998

All I gotta say is I'm buying at least two copies of Quake Arena.
One to play and one to just keep.  I wonder if Bill Leeb would
sign it for me?  Wouldn't that be cool?

Rainbow 6 continues to rock.  It took me quite a few tries to beat
the first two missions on Elite.  Now I'm on the oil rig mission.
I've almost gotten it down with 0 injuries.  My goals are
to beat each mission on Elite with no more than 2 injuries and 0
fatalities.

The Unreal OpenGL patch is out.  You can grab it here:
http://www.rendition.com/downloads/GL_Unreal.zip

Make sure you read the readme.txt file for install info.
There is a conflict with the 2.09 patch, so be warned.
Check out the Epic Megaboard (megaboard.epicgames.com) for
more info in the FAQ board section.

Wednesday, August 19, 1998

Rainbow 6 is incredible.  Absolutely amazing.  

"Alpha go."  I whispered into my radio link.  It would only take
9 seconds for Blue team to penetrate the lower levels of the mansion
and neutralize the terrorist presence there.  Red team, led by
me, would pick a lock on the upper west side of the building
and use the ensuing chaos as cover to retrieve the Ambassador.

At least, that's how we planned it.

"Contact."  "I got him." Excellent, red team was doing well.
Both teams had successfully initiated the penetration. 

Then everything went wrong.

I turned right instead of left and ended up in the central 
entryroom of the mansion, upper level.  I saw a Tango out of the
corner of my eye and I dropped him.  "Man down, man down."

Shit.  It wasn't a Tango, it was Santiago.

Then one of the terrorists locked a nearby door.  We didn't have
time to worry about Santiago...and no time to pick the door.
I pulled out a door charge and primed it.  Behind the door the
sounds of muffled combat.  I had to hurry.

"Clear"  *BOOM*  The door blasted outwards.  Fragments of shattered
wood flying through the air at incredible velocity.  

Incredible velocity right into Walther.  Apparently he had moved around
into the hallway and was dropping the Tango who moved through
the hallway.  My door charge had gone off right as he moved in front
of the damn thing.

Well that was it.  We took out the rest of the terrorists but the
ambassador was dead when we got there.

Too bad life's not a video game.  Too bad I can't rewrite those
plans.  Too bad I turned right.  It was a bad day...but the boys
will cover for me.  I didn't like Santiago anyway.

(Rainbow 6 RULES, even when you don't know what you're doing.)

Monday, August 17, 1998

* Sent latest IpDrv and IpServer code to Tim
* Sent new ServerBeacon and ClientBeaconReceiver to Tim
  (Now, instead of pinging the broadcast every 0.5 seconds, ServerBeacon
   broadcasts once when created, then waits for ClientBeaconReceiver
   to say "Hey, there is a new client looking for network games."
   When it hears this, it responds with game information.)

On the CD Rack for today:
Delerium, "Karma"
Laibach, "NATO"
Front Line Assembly, "Plasticity"
Shonen Knife, "Happy Hour"
Collapsed System, "Berlin 2007"