Login name: arkiva    			In real life: REINHART
Directory: /homec/arkiva            	Shell: /usr/bin/ksh
Last login Tue Aug 25 11:53 on ttytc from port23.max1.tope
Project: Getting everything in FF7.
Plan:
Brandon Reinhart
Epic MegaGames, Contract Programmer

Tuesday, August 25, 1998

The Texas Martini Foundation is now at 
    http://www.evilavatar.com/texas/martini.htm

There is a pretty good little rant up there about the end of the Quake
era.  That era ended for me about seven months ago when our local
LAN parties switched permanently to Quake2.  Recently, however,
we've even been playing less Quake2 and more games like Starcraft.

Nonetheless, I think the statement "The id era is at an end." is
a little strong and a little early.  Certainly more gamers are turning
towards the many new gaming alternatives in the FPS scene.  BUT,
id has shown in the past a strong capability to give the competitive
gamer what they want.  I doubt that will end anytime soon.

Sure, the PGL and CPL can't push Quake forever, but that doesn't
mean they won't push something.  Hell, I think it would be more interesting
and exciting for the PGL and CPL to push the latest and greatest instead
of a single game.  First, it would mean that the "best of the best"
would always be changing...instead of a small group of super elites
you get a different top player every six months :-) Lots more people
get a chance to play that way.  Occaisionally you might even get a
player who amazes everyone by kicking ass at say, Quake Arena, StarCraft 2,
and Rainbow 6 at all once.  Or something.  Sounds a lot more exciting
to me than watching Quake matches.  Quake is just kind of boring compared
to Quake2 and Quake2 will probably be just kind of boring compared
to Quake Arena.  Or SiN.  Or Half-Life.  Or Unreal.  Or the next cool
thing.  (Rainbow 6!!)

I know a lot of die hard Quakers don't agree with this, but I still have
the suspicion that that is because these die hard Quakers suck at
other games and don't want to lose their position at the top of the
chart.  Too bad.

Its like brutal gladiatorial combat.  Not too many heroes stay alive
long, but the ones that do are truly the best of the best.  Sure,
you might kick ass with the Rocket Launcher , but what are you gonna do when
the new kid in town packs a Flak Cannon, or an ION Blaster, or an
M-16A2? Or a little animal that chases you around the arena and bites your
toes? (hehe)

My point is that the great thing about computer games is that they
are always changing.  There is always a new graphical experience,
a new weapon, a new level, a new world.  A new game.  This isn't
basketball...its not going to be the same damn thing in 100 years
that it is now and groups like the CPL and PGL have to realize that.

"Cyberathletes" can't just be good at one game...they have to be
able to run the decathelon.  Not only would such criterion make
for more interesting and entertaining tournaments, but it would make
the competition for top seat much more cut throat.  The best wouldn't
just be the best at Quake.  They'd be the best at games in general, which
seems to fit the definition of "Cyberathlete" much better.

On the CD Rack:

Rammstein,  "Herzleid"
Rammstein,  "Sehensucht"
Black Flag, "Everything Went Black"
The Clash,  "The Story of The Clash"
Crass,      "Best Before..."

Anyone who says The Clash aren't punk can die a horrible burning death
for all I care.
	
    