Login name: arkiva    			In real life: REINHART
Directory: /homec/arkiva            	Shell: /usr/bin/ksh
Last login Tue Sep  8 08:40 on ttype from port11.max1.tope
Project: Getting everything in FF7.
Plan:
Brandon Reinhart
Epic MegaGames, Contract Programmer

Tuesday, September 08, 1998

Just read on KMFDM.com that Nina Hagen is going to sing
on the next KMFDM album.  Rock!!

Am I behind the news or WHAT?

Sascha has great hair.





Saturday, September 05, 1998

"I'm looking for this man to sell him to other men,
 to sell him to other men at ten times the price."

There is an interview with Harvey Smith on PlanetUnreal.
Check out what he says Deus Ex will be like:

"System Shock plus Fallout plus Blade Runner plus Goldeneye plus X-files."

Deus Ex is gonna RULE! 

I picked up Dune2000 and Get Medieval! yesterday.  Both rock!
The Ordos Mentat kicks SO much ass.
"The spice must flow, that is your mission.
 Kill them all, that is advice.
 Succeed, or live the rest of your life in a pain amplifier,
   that is a threat."

Get Medieval! is helarious.  My little brother was rolling on the floor
during the intro :-)  The barbarian kicks ass.
 
Oh! And Dune2000 comes with a trailer/sneak peek thing for
C&C: Tiberian Sun.  

James Earl Jones is gonna be in it.
Kane is BACK!

IT SHOULD BE ILLEGAL FOR GAMES TO KICK THIS MUCH ASS!!!

OH OH and I saw boxes for Fallout 2 at EB.  FALLOUT 2!!!
FALL OUT TWO.  FALL OUT TWO! Its gonna be SO hardcore.

I'm now taking a break from making this plan update to do a
little dance while singing "Fallout 2, Deus Ex, Tiberian Sun yeah
yeah yeah."

Okay, I'm back, hope you weren't waiting long.  

Did you know I was once in a band?? In high school. We were called
the Lowly Neophytes and we had one song called "Nine Iron In Your Skull"
and my friend Chris Smith would bang on his guitar he couldn't play
too well and I would yell "You've got a nine iron in your skull!"
and jump around.  That was a cool day, the day I was in a band.

Does anyone else get the heebie jeebies from the Commandos: Behind
Enemy Lines?  Its that plastic molded face leering at me. It has
prevented me from buy the game on two occaisions.  Really freaks the 
bejesus out of my toejams.  

Friday, September 04, 1998

"For he IS the Kwisatch Haderach."

Dune2000 hits the stores today.  You know I'm there.
I only have to say one thing:

"Frigate has arrived."

Saturday, August 29, 1998

If you haven't go see "Blade," Goths will love it.  Of course,
the side of evil loses, but Goths should be more concerned
with the fact that killing is taking place, not which side
is getting killed. (Hehe)

Great chat about Wheel of Time today.  Very cool.  The Legend
Entertainment crew kicks ass and takes names.  I can't wait to
play this title.  PlanetUnreal has a transcript of the chat,
if you wanna get the inside scoop.

Things I need:

Someone send me a list of good Goa groups.  I'm starting to like
it.

Someone send me a URL or something of a good place to buy a leather
jacket and have it decorated/painted.  Don't know anyone locally
to do this.  

Wednesday, August 27, 1998

What Myscha says is true.  Been happening to me too.
Somebody has been emailing mod groups saying they are me.
Saying stuff like "I love your mods, I like to work
on your project."

Realize, that if you receive mail from me, it'll either
come from green@idir.net arkiva@eagle.cc.ukans.edu or
greenmarine@planetunreal.com.  I'm also not working on any
projects but my own and Epics at this time, so if you get
an email like this it most likely isn't me.

Also, note that while it is possible to fake the From: field
on a message, if you look at the complete header you can check
to see if the originating server is one of the above.

-

I'm a game addict.  If a new game comes out, I buy it.
I'll probably go buy Get Medieval! tonight, just because
of the positive comments I've heard about it. 

I haven't seen a lot of screenshots or reviews or anything about
it, but the game seems to be moving by word of mouth alone.
That's cool...man I remember playing Gauntlet on my neighbor's
Nintendo.  Way way back when I was in grade school. 

-

Is it just me or is CIH out of control?  Maybe its just CIH hype,
but there seems to be a lot of "Oh dear, that patch/file/binary/library
we sent out is infected with CIH.  Sorry."  

I don't think I've had a virus since I got this "Don't Panic" virus
on a macintosh way back when I used Macs.  (Hehe).  Every 15 minutes
the computer would say "Don't Panic" and that's about all the virus did.
Pretty cool.

-

Shout outs to Martin Fitzgerald.  A.K.A. "Brother Kato" of The Brotherhood Clan.
Martin introduced me to the concept of "thinking for yourself" as well
as good taste in punk music.  Keep kicking ass and taking names, Marty.

The Brotherhood: http://www.angelfire.com/ks/quakethebrotherhood/

Tuesday, August 25, 1998

The Texas Martini Foundation is now at 
    http://www.evilavatar.com/texas/martini.htm

There is a pretty good little rant up there about the end of the Quake
era.  That era ended for me about seven months ago when our local
LAN parties switched permanently to Quake2.  Recently, however,
we've even been playing less Quake2 and more games like Starcraft.

Nonetheless, I think the statement "The id era is at an end." is
a little strong and a little early.  Certainly more gamers are turning
towards the many new gaming alternatives in the FPS scene.  BUT,
id has shown in the past a strong capability to give the competitive
gamer what they want.  I doubt that will end anytime soon.

Sure, the PGL and CPL can't push Quake forever, but that doesn't
mean they won't push something.  Hell, I think it would be more interesting
and exciting for the PGL and CPL to push the latest and greatest instead
of a single game.  First, it would mean that the "best of the best"
would always be changing...instead of a small group of super elites
you get a different top player every six months :-) Lots more people
get a chance to play that way.  Occaisionally you might even get a
player who amazes everyone by kicking ass at say, Quake Arena, StarCraft 2,
and Rainbow 6 at all once.  Or something.  Sounds a lot more exciting
to me than watching Quake matches.  Quake is just kind of boring compared
to Quake2 and Quake2 will probably be just kind of boring compared
to Quake Arena.  Or SiN.  Or Half-Life.  Or Unreal.  Or the next cool
thing.  (Rainbow 6!!)

I know a lot of die hard Quakers don't agree with this, but I still have
the suspicion that that is because these die hard Quakers suck at
other games and don't want to lose their position at the top of the
chart.  Too bad.

Its like brutal gladiatorial combat.  Not too many heroes stay alive
long, but the ones that do are truly the best of the best.  Sure,
you might kick ass with the Rocket Launcher , but what are you gonna do when
the new kid in town packs a Flak Cannon, or an ION Blaster, or an
M-16A2? Or a little animal that chases you around the arena and bites your
toes? (hehe)

My point is that the great thing about computer games is that they
are always changing.  There is always a new graphical experience,
a new weapon, a new level, a new world.  A new game.  This isn't
basketball...its not going to be the same damn thing in 100 years
that it is now and groups like the CPL and PGL have to realize that.

"Cyberathletes" can't just be good at one game...they have to be<br