Login name: arkiva    			In real life: REINHART
Directory: /homec/arkiva            	Shell: /usr/bin/ksh
Last login Wed Sep 16 17:10 on ttyt5 from port14.max1.tope
Project: Getting everything in FF7.
Plan:
Brandon Reinhart
Epic MegaGames, Contract Programmer

Wednesday, September 16, 1998

"Wicked tribe mejor voodoo hacker tribe.  Mejor wicked tribe."

Greetings from your favorite goggleboy!

The Orange Smoothie Productions "Stuff the Warning Label Said Not to Do"
page is up.  Craig Sparks worked for a very long time to put together this
excellent example of what us Kansans do at our LAN parties when we aren't 
shooting things in Quake2.  

You can check the page out here:
http://www.ittc.ukans.edu/~botanika/

Remember to download Craig's great deathmatch level "Confidence Lost"
there is a link to it on the above site.  He also made a CTF version of
the map which is a hell of a lot of fun.

If you look at the composite LAN party picture you can see me in a white OSP
tshirt just to the right of the left side.  My friend Michael Moore is on my
right (my right, picture's left) and Shawn Wallis is the man with the
video camera.  Some of you punks from Drive-by-Net 3 might know him as
TBoard.

Don't use my green@idir.net email address anymore.  I'm moving and won't
be on Internet Direct.  Use brandon@epicgames.com for business related
emails and greenmarine@planetunreal.com for other crap.

Big congrats to Monolith and Jason Hall for completing Shogo.  That
has GOT to feel good.  Screenshots look great, can't wait to buy
my copy.

I bought a Velocity 4400 today.  The drivers that came with the thing
turned my computer to mush, so blah on that.  I downloaded new drivers
from the STB webpage and now everything is working fine.  I ordered
some speakers but they haven't arried yet which means my parents will
have to ship them to me in Raleigh.  That sucks.  Creative Labs called
and said they got the shipment screwed up and they need me to send
whatever extra stuff besides my speakers back to them.  Mejor crash.
Mejor fenfen crash.

I'm on mission 9 of the Ordos.  Mission 8 was harder than a mother until
I captured the Harkonnen base and sold it back to them.  Mission 9 is
much easier, comparitively.

The internet rules, as if you didn't already realize that.  I got on
Autobytel.com to look for a car and less than 48 hours later I'm the proud
owner of a '97 Mazda Miata.  Fully loaded and barely used with just over 14,000
miles on it.  Whoop!  I've been doing a ton of my shopping over the net
lately.  I don't even have to get out of my leather comfy coding chair.
Jello Biafra eat your heart out.

Play-Doe faces of death or not, I bought Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines.
This game is actually a fair chunk o' fun.  Its very creative, sort of like an
RTS/Lemmings concoction.  I recommend it to strategy and puzzle game buffs.
Mejor wicked boot.

Looks like I'm going to be living with his Frozenness, Myscha the
Sled Dog.  Apparently some of you have already heard because I've received
a few letters of condolence in the mail.  I like the claymore
baited with red meat plan.  (J/K)

Actually, I'm very excited and nervous about the move.  This is a chance
for me to meet everybody on the team and really test my mettle.  Living
with Myscha will be cool, the guy has a rather outspoken attitude
sometimes, but I'll be damned if that doesn't make him kick ass.  I'm
cautious at this point about engaging in any debates with the guy.  Not sure
if its even possible to win :-P 

That's it from my corner of the Multiverse.  Watch the gathering
Brodkil army on your way out.  They've been grumbling about some
"undelivered shipment" for some time now.  Of course, I know nothing
about that.

Trader Alryk "Big Al" T'vek of the Naruni Enterprises

Thursday, September 10, 1998

"You have delivered two loads of dirty socks to us.  You are
 worth two loads of dirty socks to us.  You are of increasing
 dirty sock value to us.  This is a fact."

"Build many small walls inside the enemy base to trap them,
 that is the mission.  Capture their buildings and sell them
 to C.H.O.A.M. on the spot, that is advice.  Build walls around
 their harvesters to ruin production, that is more advice.
 Capture enemy Devastators using the Gas and blow them up
 that is funny advice.  Drive a car through their based and have
 the bad guys follow you to the other bad guy base that is
 more funny advice.  Get the Harkonnens to Death Hand their own
 base that is helarious advice.  Yes, the spice has improved
 our vision.  We foresee a base full of many small annoying walls.
 The Bene Gesseritt witches have shown us this future, it is...good."
 
Tuesday, September 08, 1998

Just read on KMFDM.com that Nina Hagen is going to sing
on the next KMFDM album.  Rock!!

Am I behind the news or WHAT?

Sascha has great hair.





Saturday, September 05, 1998

"I'm looking for this man to sell him to other men,
 to sell him to other men at ten times the price."

There is an interview with Harvey Smith on PlanetUnreal.
Check out what he says Deus Ex will be like:

"System Shock plus Fallout plus Blade Runner plus Goldeneye plus X-files."

Deus Ex is gonna RULE! 

I picked up Dune2000 and Get Medieval! yesterday.  Both rock!
The Ordos Mentat kicks SO much ass.
"The spice must flow, that is your mission.
 Kill them all, that is advice.
 Succeed, or live the rest of your life in a pain amplifier,
   that is a threat."

Get Medieval! is helarious.  My little brother was rolling on the floor
during the intro :-)  The barbarian kicks ass.
 
Oh! And Dune2000 comes with a trailer/sneak peek thing for
C&C: Tiberian Sun.  

James Earl Jones is gonna be in it.
Kane is BACK!

IT SHOULD BE ILLEGAL FOR GAMES TO KICK THIS MUCH ASS!!!

OH OH and I saw boxes for Fallout 2 at EB.  FALLOUT 2!!!
FALL OUT TWO.  FALL OUT TWO! Its gonna be SO hardcore.

I'm now taking a break from making this plan update to do a
little dance while singing "Fallout 2, Deus Ex, Tiberian Sun yeah
yeah yeah."

Okay, I'm back, hope you weren't waiting long.  

Did you know I was once in a band?? In high school. We were called
the Lowly Neophytes and we had one song called "Nine Iron In Your Skull"
and my friend Chris Smith would bang on his guitar he couldn't play
too well and I would yell "You've got a nine iron in your skull!"
and jump around.  That was a cool day, the day I was in a band.

Does anyone else get the heebie jeebies from the Commandos: Behind
Enemy Lines?  Its that plastic molded face leering at me. It has
prevented me from buy the game on two occaisions.  Really freaks the 
bejesus out of my toejams.  

Friday, September 04, 1998

"For he IS the Kwisatch Haderach."

Dune2000 hits the stores today.  You know I'm there.
I only have to say one thing:

"Frigate has arrived."

Saturday, August 29, 1998

If you haven't go see "Blade," Goths will love it.  Of course,
the side of evil loses, but Goths should be more concerned
with the fact that killing is taking place, not which side
is getting killed. (Hehe)

Great chat about Wheel of Time today.  Very cool.  The Legend
Entertainment crew kicks ass and takes names.  I can't wait to
play this title.  PlanetUnreal has a transcript of the chat,
if you wanna get the inside scoop.

Things I need:

Someone send me a list of good Goa groups.  I'm starting to like
it.

Someone send me a URL or something of a good place to buy a leather
jacket and have it decorated/pain