Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Fri Mar  5 03:16 (EST) on tty1
No mail.
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Monday, March 01, 1999

"White man, black man, yellow man,
 White man, black man,
   Rip the System!"

Sascha announced the beginning of his new group MDFMK today.
www.mdfmk.net

Monday, March 01, 1999

"Lying to progress.
 Only achieving greed.
 Seated behind the sun.
 Myths bleed into one.
 Searching for a saviour
 to lead us through this life.
 Where our sanity is undone.
 Killing against our will.
 Killing for the bastard maker.
 The fairy tale.
 The non existent."
	- Hatebreed, Puritan

Just sitting here reading mail.

Wednesday, February 24, 1999

I've moved my .plan file to an Epic machine.  I will no longer be using
PlanetQuake's mail server for my .plan service.

What I'm Doing:
- I've been working on Unreal Tournament.  I am currently programming
the single player game as well as writing the story.  I've been doing
bug fixes as they appear.  I've also written a fairly large chunk of
the windowing interface using Jack 'mek' Porter's UWindow system.
Occaisionally, I'll hack a weapon here or there to make the features a
bit more fun.

We are deep in crunch time on Unreal Tournament.  Its a lot of work, but
a lot of fun too.  Even though my work load gets to be massive, I still
have fun hunting down bugs and crossing them off of my list.

I haven't had time for much other than work.  I did take a little time out
to get my car a state inspection and an oil change though. :-)  Oh,
and I got my hair cut.  Hehe.

After UT ships, I'm going to spend a LOT more time on my guitar.  I'm
also going to build a Storm Trooper costume.  I'll post some info about
that later if I have time.  

There is a Sleater-Kinney show next month at the Cat's Cradle in Carrboro.
They are most likely going to do stuff off their new album.  Its going
to kick SO MUCH ASS.

What else?  I've been on a KMFDM kick lately.  I bought an Excessive Force
and a Glory t-shirt.  I bought a couple posters and a Bauhaus poster too.
(To decorate my new office with once the buildout is finished.)  I
wonder what Sascha is going to say on March 1st?  Is KMFDM truly dead or
just reformed?  They haven't even shipped an album with the new lineup,
it'll be interesting to see what happens.

If you want some absolutely unbeatable deathmatch music, snag HeadHunter 2000
by Front 242.  Its fucking great for TRIBES.

"I'm looking for this man to sell him to other man
 to sell him to other man for ten times his price (at least).
 I'm looking for this man who knows the rules of the game
 whose able to forget them to realize my aim."


