Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Fri Mar  5 03:16 (EST) on tty1
No mail.
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Wednesday, May 19, 1999

-- Star Wars

Saw Star Wars twice today.  Great film.  Incredible light saber duels.
Jar Jar Binks should have gotten waxed though.

-- E3

I'm going to call E3 a success.  I've been thinking some time now
about how it went and about my perceptions of the event.  I'm going
to call it a success.

I spent the majority of E3 at the GT Interactive space next to the
Unreal Tournament machines giving demonstrations.  When I wasn't
doing that, I was in the back room giving demonstrations to media
types.  I got away a few times to check out other games (what kind
of a developer would I be if I didn't take the time to watch and
examine another companies game?  Not a very good one.)  On Saturday
at 1:00 I gave an hour long demonstration at the 3dfx booth.

The demonstration was great.  There were a ton of people there...I'm
not a good judge of numbers, but I'd say easily over a hundred.  When
I demonstrated the Redeemer, one of our new weapons, the entire
audience applauded.  That made me proud.  It made the entire Epic team
proud.  How can you call a game unoriginal when over a hundred people
spontaneously applaud when you show off some new part of the game?
I believe our Unreal Tournament demonstration had the highest attendance
of any of the 3dfx demonstrations.

We constantly had a large group around our UT machines.  At least as 
many as the Quake3 machines.  That was cool.  Quite a few times I would 
ask a person of their impressions of the game before I introduced myself.
Everyone that played the game thought the game was a lot of fun.  A very
large number of people told me that they thought the game had Q3 beat
in spades.

With the positive feedback came some useful constructive criticism.  
Everyone should check out Evil Avatar's preview.  Its very well written.  
We invited Evil and some other web news people over to the Epic HQ to 
check out UT and get a lot of hands on time with the game.  Before that, 
Evil was a major Unreal Tournament detractor...now he thinks the game 
is a top notch title. His criticism can be used by the Epic team to 
improve the game.

I am very happy with the kind of gameplay we've attained in UT.  Things 
like multikill combos and killing sprees add a lot to deathmatch...adding 
more of a fightgame edge to the combat.  Gameplay moves from just killing 
people to killing people in creative ways.  By introducing elements like 
high air control and opponent momentum control (knocking your enemy around 
with rocket launcher or ripper) you get more skillful kills.  From the 
feedback I've gotten from people who have actually taken the time to play 
with the game before they judge it, the gameplay is very solid.

People are really digging the bots too.  When I was demonstrating how you
can order bots to attack, defend, protect you, and guard locations people
were wide eyed.  Single player capture the flag is a LOT different when
you have nearly complete control over your team.  Learning the best way
of managing your artificial teammates is a lot of fun, especially when it
affects the outcome of the game.

One of the most important parts of making team deathmatch variations 
fun single player games is making the bots more than just target dummies.

