Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Fri Mar  5 03:16 (EST) on tty1
No mail.
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Wednesday, May 19, 1999

-- Star Wars

Saw Star Wars twice today.  Great film.  Incredible light saber duels.
Jar Jar Binks should have gotten waxed though.

-- E3

I'm going to call E3 a success.  I've been thinking some time now
about how it went and about my perceptions of the event.  I'm going
to call it a success.

I spent the majority of E3 at the GT Interactive space next to the
Unreal Tournament machines giving demonstrations.  When I wasn't
doing that, I was in the back room giving demonstrations to media
types.  I got away a few times to check out other games (what kind
of a developer would I be if I didn't take the time to watch and
examine another companies game?  Not a very good one.)  On Saturday
at 1:00 I gave an hour long demonstration at the 3dfx booth.

The demonstration was great.  There were a ton of people there...I'm
not a good judge of numbers, but I'd say easily over a hundred.  When
I demonstrated the Redeemer, one of our new weapons, the entire
audience applauded.  That made me proud.  It made the entire Epic team
proud.  How can you call a game unoriginal when over a hundred people
spontaneously applaud when you show off some new part of the game?
I believe our Unreal Tournament demonstration had the highest attendance
of any of the 3dfx demonstrations.

We constantly had a large group around our UT machines.  At least as 
many as the Quake3 machines.  That was cool.  Quite a few times I would 
ask a person of their impressions of the game before I introduced myself.
Everyone that played the game thought the game was a lot of fun.  A very
large number of people told me that they thought the game had Q3 beat
in spades.

With the positive feedback came some useful constructive criticism.  
Everyone should check out Evil Avatar's preview.  Its very well written.  
We invited Evil and some other web news people over to the Epic HQ to 
check out UT and get a lot of hands on time with the game.  Before that, 
Evil was a major Unreal Tournament detractor...now he thinks the game 
is a top notch title. His criticism can be used by the Epic team to 
improve the game.

I am very happy with the kind of gameplay we've attained in UT.  Things 
like multikill combos and killing sprees add a lot to deathmatch...adding 
more of a fightgame edge to the combat.  Gameplay moves from just killing 
people to killing people in creative ways.  By introducing elements like 
high air control and opponent momentum control (knocking your enemy around 
with rocket launcher or ripper) you get more skillful kills.  From the 
feedback I've gotten from people who have actually taken the time to play 
with the game before they judge it, the gameplay is very solid.

People are really digging the bots too.  When I was demonstrating how you
can order bots to attack, defend, protect you, and guard locations people
were wide eyed.  Single player capture the flag is a LOT different when
you have nearly complete control over your team.  Learning the best way
of managing your artificial teammates is a lot of fun, especially when it
affects the outcome of the game.

One of the most important parts of making team deathmatch variations 
fun single player games is making the bots more than just target dummies.

Okay, so enough talk of UT.  What about other games?

I was really impressed by Deus Ex.  The level of interactivity is superb
and the speech system rocks.  I get excited about the thought of playing
the game, but the programmer in me gets excited about the thought of
mod authoring for the game. ;-)  I hope that they release the standard
tools set with the game.  The thing would basically be an amateur RPG
designers dreamland.  Map authors could make scenarios in the world and
record their own voices...with the flexibility of the lip synch system...
wow.  I wonder how much will be possible when that game comes out.  Oh!
You know what would be cool?  A team fortess kind of class based game using
the Deus Ex rule system.  Snipers and heavy weapons and computer hackers
and cyborgs.  Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.........

I can't WAIT for Tiberian Sun.  The gameplay is very traditional, but with
a solid storyline it'll be just that much more fun.  RTSes were very strong
at E3.  Homeworld looks like it could be very cool and Kingdoms (which was
right next to the UT area) is fun too.

Soul Caliber is a reason alone to get a Dreamcast.  I dig fight games and
this is the best I've played yet.

Diablo 2 looks hot, but I didn't get as good a look at it as I wanted too.
Overall I was kind of disappointed at the RPG side of things.  Deus Ex
and Anachronox are going to kick all sorts of ass, but there didn't seem
to be much on the more Daggerfallish side of things.  I didn't see Beth Soft
anywhere and I'm wondering if Morrowwind will be a reality.  I'm really
burnt out on Ultima.  I had some really bad things happen in UO recently
and now I get this nasty pit in my stomach whenever I play.

Anachronox has some very cool visuals.  (The unfolding inventory screen was
sweet.)  Tom Hall was standing beside me controlling movement while I moved
the mouse around...he was doing different voices for each of the characters
we encountered (hehehe).  Here is a bit of dialog:

[Anachronox booth.]
GreenMarine: "So can I pull out a weapon and threaten this guy?"
Tom Hall: "NO! This isn't a shooter!"

[Deus Ex booth.]
GreenMarine: "So can I pull out a weapon and shoot this guard?"
Chris Norden: "Sure, you can step on rats too."

Hehehe.  Those are going to be great games when they come out.

What else is cool?  I met a bunch of people I've been wanting to meet for
a while and some people I didn't know but was very surprised to run into.

Overall, it was a lot of fun.  I was so busy running from UT machine to UT
machine showing people the game and asking people their opinions that I
didn't see as much as I would have liked.  I spent like 5 minutes over in
the GOD area meeting Steve "Won't-Update-the-Damn-.plan-File-Database" Heaslip 
and Dave "Really-Hyper-When-Drunk" Kosak and didn't make it to the console
or Kentia halls at all.

Oh...one other thing...LA sucks.

Here is the URL to EA's preview:

http://www.evilavatar.com/Gib/UT_Preview/UT_Preview1.htm

And here are some more post-E3 UT articles:

http://www.cdmag.com/Home/home.html?article=/articles/020/018/unrealt_fl.html
http://www.stomped.com/chron/e3utb.html
http://www.unrealkingdom.com/unrealtournament/preview.html

And be on the lookout for Billy "Wicked" Wilson's UT preview.
	
    