Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Sun Jun 20 00:47 (EDT) on tty1
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Sun Jun 13 13:06 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Friday, July 02, 1999

Evening

[ For followers of obscure Ultima Online events and news. ]

Just to set the record straight, it was Myscha the Sled dog,
not me, who attempted to purchase gold from GM Darwin over EBay.
About three months ago I bought two accounts over EBay (split cost
and resources with Myscha).  Since then, Myscha left to work with
the Collective and I quit playing UO.

Somehow, someone got their information crossed (either through EBay
or at the Forward Artillery webpage www.forwardartillery.com) and
it was reported by Lum the Mad that I had attempted to buy the
gold.

Anyway, I think what Darwin has done is pretty fucked up and a good
example of the rampant corruption in the GM program.  Its also a good
lesson to users of EBay: it totally rocks, but it can also be dangerous.

Since I have quit UO, I still use Ebay for my card collecting.

I had an article posted on "The Dojo" about effective trading on EBay
and I would post the article link here, but the new dojo format sucks
and makes it impossible to find anything.

Afternoon

I'm selling a block of 3 Pokemon starters on EBay:

http://cgi.ebay.com/aw-cgi/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=125922736

Morning

If any Kingdoms players have information on how to break
a Zhon stone giant blockade, I would be much appriciative.
None of the other races seem to have a unit or weapon
capable of stopping them.

I tried to use the Veruna last night against Lord Talisman,
but not a single unit was capable of putting even a dent
in his defenses.

Unlike Total Annihilation or StarCraft, this game seems to
be won and lost upon the construction of your base.  The
Zhon having a strong advantage in the fact that they
don't need one.  A stone giant is a walking wall that
also serves as an artillery piece.