Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Thu Jul  8 17:06 (EDT) on ttyp1 from 216.27.43.214:0.0
   18 hours 52 minutes idle
On since Thu Jul  8 17:06 (EDT) on ttyp0 from 216.27.43.214:0.0
   18 hours 25 minutes idle
On since Thu Jul  8 17:33 (EDT) on ttyp2 from 216.27.43.214:0.0
   18 hours 3 minutes idle
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Sun Jun 13 13:06 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Friday, July 9, 1999


1:04 PM

Dan Sarkar showed me this picture.  I don't know who or where it is, but
its so cool I had to share it with the rest of the world.





I want to add to my 'rant' by saying that the two sites I refer to below
are not Unreal Universe and PlanetUnreal.  Neither of those sites are
what I would call "Independent."

Unfortunately, when you choose to focus your sites interests around a
single game you lose a lot of flexibility.  You lose the ability to say
things like "this game is cool, but could use work here and here."

People generally don't visit fan sites for reviews about the game the
fan site is focusing on.  Fan sites are a focus for hints, cheats, game
community information and so forth.  In order for them to do their job
properly they tend to sacrifice some level of independence.  Their webmasters
tend to work more closely with the developers.

I think that most gamers understand that.  Its not hard to realize that
when you go to a site like PlanetUnreal for information on Unreal or
Unreal Tournament you are going to get the most positive and optimistic
point of view.  They are trading some level of credibility for insider
information.

On the other hand, Blue's News started out as a Quake fan site and has
moved beyond that.  While Quake is still largely the focus of the site,
it has become one of the best resources for FPS gaming news.

Fan sites have to be aware of their role.  They need to present information
about the game...even promote it...without becoming the developer's spin
doctor.

Mia'Cova at PlanetUnreal presents an interesting point: Is it unethical for
a site webmaster to accept a plane ticket to see a game?  Under the APME code, 
it would be.  At the same time, a lot of these webmasters can't afford to fly 
themselves.  The question becomes "Can a webmaster maintain objectivity while 
accepting gifts from developers."  Most print media types would say "No."
I think that this might be a case where the print media rules may not be
entirely relevant to the world of online media.  There are a lot of (relatively)
high profile web sites that don't have the financial backing their print
media equivalents have.  You have to pay for a magazine, you don't have to pay
for a webpage.

Anyway, I'm just discussing my personal opinions.  There are ethics lawyers
and professors who have established very concrete rules of ethical conduct
in the print media.  My point is not to construct an interpretation of those
rules, but to say "Maybe these should apply to the net as well."

Thursday, July 8, 1999

Over the past week I've noticed 4 online gaming "news" sites posting
previews of Unreal Tournament using ancient pirated versions of the game.
Talk about a complete and utter lack of credibility!  It doesn't really
make a difference to me if these previews are positive: something is
seriously wrong when a site claiming to be presenting facts is stooping
to illegal means to get a peak at a game.

You'd be surprised how many of these sites don't seem to think what they
are doing is wrong.  Most of them must not think that Epic would find
out about them.

I suppose its nice that these people want to see the game, but a large
part of what drives them is their mindless need for hits.  These guys
run half-assed gaming sites that can't get hits legitimately, so they
have to stoop to the lowest levels.  Or maybe they are just too lazy to
call or email someone at Epic and ask for help or permission.

Just so you know, if you see any recent preview of UT that contains weapons
from Unreal its not been sanctioned by us.  About eight months ago, we used
some of the weapons from Unreal as placeholders until we got the new models in.
Thats how old the copies they are previewing are.  Talk about lazy.  You'd 
think they would at least be smart enough to get the latest warezed version 
to preview.

It just pisses me off.  I can count the number of respectful and intelligent
gaming news sites I know on one hand.  If I'm reading skewed previews and reviews
about the game I'm working on, I can just imagine the kind of stuff I read
about other people's games.

If you run one of these sites you know who you are and you aren't doing anyone
a service.  Posting previews using pirated copies of games will only get you
shit listed.  Asking for help with a preview, on the other hand, might just
get you flown out here to meet the team, eat pizza, and play the latest
version of the game.

Depending on the situation, we are more than happy to supply sites with
screenshots and information.  Don't sit on your ass and wonder why
Unreal Universe and PlanetUnreal always get screenshots.  They ask for them.
They take the time to find out whats going on and they verify their information.

I think that the growing level of under the belt behavior in the gaming news
community is a real problem.  You have sites that fabricate "previews" and
"reviews" and "interviews" just to get linked to Blue's or Voodoo Extreme.
More hits, more money.

I figure most of these sites aren't doing it with any real nefarious intention.
Its just the logical progression of actions: "My news site is up, I've got my
banner ads going.  I need hits.  Guess I'll preview this pirated copy of game
X and then tell Big News Site Y that its up."

Sounds harmless but its damn unethical.  

Maybe news sites need to form some kind of association that goes beyond site
networks.  The association would have a code of ethics and sites that subscribed
to the association's ethics could display a link or icon on their page.  Then
the association would monitor member site behavior and so forth.  That might
work.  Especially if magazine backed sites would get into it.

Then both the reader and the developer would be benefited.  There would be
some kind of consequences for being unethical.

I don't know...but as it stands something needs to happen.  Ethics in reporting
is something that a lot of print journalists learn in school and through
years of experience.  Now you have fifteen year old kids reporting gaming
news with as much authority.  Is it logical to expect them to act in an
ethical manner?  Not if they haven't had any exposure to it.  They aren't going
to lose their job if their boss gets a complaint either.

http://www.apme.com/html/ethics.html

Here is a link to the APME Code of Ethics.  Their main tenants are:

- Responsibility
- Accuracy
- Integrity
- Independence

Few sites grasp any of these concepts.  A big thumbs up to the few sites that 
do.  Right now I can only think of two sites that I would say pass on all 
four.  Considering that there are hundreds of gaming news sites out there...
that's pretty sad.