Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Mon Jul 26 18:59 (EDT) on ttyp4 from 216.27.43.207
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Wed Jul 14 17:39 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Tuesday, August 10, 1999

I'm doing this as my last resort.  I've had a hell of a time recruiting
miners on Siege Perilous, so I'm updating my .plan to find miners.

I'm currently at 88.3 mining and 70.8 blacksmithy.  I'm working towards
obtaining GM blacksmith so that I can assist Lord Adrick in cornering
the arms market.

With about 6 other dedicated miners we made Adrick the 2nd GM blacksmith
on Siege Perilous.  Most of the other miners are worn out and want to
focus on their fighting skills.

The deal is this.  If you play a miner on Siege Perilous and mine for me
I will post pay 4 gold per each ingot delivered.  I will keep track of
each miner that delivers ingots and when I am GM I will pay off all my
debts.

With my current blacksmithy of 70.8, I project that it will take me
60,000 ingots to achieve GrandMaster.  Any miner who delivers 1000 ingots
will receive free smithing for the rest of their life.

Current ingot prices are 1 to 1.5 gold per ingot.  4 gold is a killing
compared to that, but you won't get paid until I achieve GM.  Instead of
dumping your ingots on the market for a reduced price, you can get a
secure future working with me. :-)

I've been playing UO for three years now (since the beginning of the beta)
and can definately be trusted to make good on my deals.

You can contact me in game at the Britain Blacksmith Guild.  My name is
Cutter John.  If I'm not there, you can leave a message with Adrick.
You can also email me at brandon@epicgames.com.

A dedicated miner could easily earn over 100,000 gold from this deal.

Finally, if the ingot market rebounds to a price higher than what I offer,
I will match it plus one.  This means that you will ultimately make
more gold by working with me than through normal market channels.

You can also leave a note for me on the Battle Vortex discussion board.
www.battlevortex.com  Click on the Siege Perilous board.

Cutter John, Adept Miner
Battle Vortex Alliance
Siege Perilous Shard
	
    