Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Mon Jul 26 18:59 (EDT) on ttyp4 from 216.27.43.207
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Thursday, September 2, 1999

Cool, my passport arrived so I can go to London this weekend.  Anyone reading
this know a place in London to get European black metal albums?  I want to pick
up Bal Sagoth's three albums and any Dimmu Borgir I'm missing.  These albums
are fairly difficult to find here.

--

One of the artists painted a happy face on the end of the flak shell.  I was
playing against bots the other day and I took a flak shell right in the face.
Two frames before it hit me, I see this smiley face staring me down.  Boom!
Giblets bouncing everywhere.  These artists think they're funny.

--

I have to recommend the services of Express Visa, Inc.  www.expressvisa.com
Get your passport application executed, call them and pay them around a hundred
bucks and reserve a spot, and you'll have your passport finished two days later,
assuming you can prove you are going somewhere.  Neat.

--

I am reading "On Killing" by Lt. Col. Grossman.  This is the guy that is
drawing comparisons between playing video games and military training.
While this sounds ludicrous, don't underestimate him.  He's done a lot
of research and has quite a few answers for your arguments.  To underestimate
his knowledge would be a mistake.  Nonetheless, I think there are strong
arguments to refute him.

One thing to point out.   Lt. Col. Grossman is not saying that playing a
first person shooter endows the gamer with the technical knowledge of
fire arms and proper shooting skills.  It seems most of the people that
have responded to him are saying things like "Hey, I play games a lot and
I don't know the first thing about firing a gun."  That's not what he's
saying.  He's saying that the repitious actions condition your midbrain
to react in a violent manner.  That the conditions that exist while deathmatching
are similar to the conditions that sergeants place on their squad during
training.  The goal is to make you react swiftly and without thought to
enemy aggression.  Technical knowledge of weapons is irrelevant.

While I have only read the first few chapters in the book, I would respond
to the above by saying that there is a fundamental difference between
gaming and military training.  The former is done for entertainment.  The
person who is playing the game is in a completely different mindset.  In
addition, the lack of factors like an overbearing authority figure barking
orders, the heat of a hundred pounds of gear and uniform, and the noise
of weapons fire sort of mean the stress levels are different.  None of
the factors that make a person receptive to conditioning are present.

That's probably a premature and uneducated argument.  The entire last
two or three chapters of "On Killing" are about the effects of
violent gaming on the human mind.  No doubt Lt. Col. Grossman has
answers for the argument given above.

I still think that what we are seeing with situations like Columbine
is not an inability on the part of the perpetrator to distinguish
reality and fantasy.  Those two kids knew what they were doing.  They
premeditated their actions.  They fully grasped the reality of the
situation.  Rather, it was their inability to see that their actions
were wrong.  They felt justified.  They felt they had been slighted
by others, outcast by everyone else, so they felt right about what
they were doing.  Seems that is more a failing on the part of their
parents and schools than on video games.

The kids were not acting out of anger.  It wasn't a midbrain motivated
action.  Rather, they were carefully thinking through the actions.
Grossman's argument doesn't support large predatory killings like
the incident at Columbine.  Under Grossman's theory, you might be
more likely to punch somebody who pisses you off, or even shoot them
if you have a gun.  It doesn't explain how video games might cause a
person to aqcuire a weapon, plan out a strike against a locale,
and then execute it.  Midbrain conditioning only affects irrational, 
sudden, emotional decision making.  Military conditioning makes
people more likely to fire in stressful situations, it doesn't
turn them into psychotics.
	
    