Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Sun Sep  5 12:24 (EDT) on ttyp1 from tpfl.demon.co.uk
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Sunday, September 05, 1999
London, England

I'm updating from a machine here at the Playing Fields in
London.  This place rocks.  Its a pub/gaming pit with a
bar and a bunch of old wine cellar style booths around
it.  You can check out their website at

http://www.theplayingfields.co.uk/

Last night we set up a bunch of machines with UT to test
everything out for tonights party/tournament.  It was
a lot of fun.  A bunch of people from Qamex are situated
around here and played with UT.  They were quite pleased!
I was sitting back in the second cubby watching people play,
at one point.  There were people just saying how amazing
they thought UT was and they didn't even know who I was.
Its a hell of a lot of fun to watch people play your
game and really get into it.

http://www.qamex.com/

A bunch of the guys were hard core Quake and Quake2 players.
They were skeptical at first, but as soon as they had played
some DM, CTF, and Assault they were converts.  :)   

Tonight is the big party and tournament.  We are going to
run 5 elimination rounds followed by a series of finals
matches.  The winner gets a huge steel trophy of the UT
trophy symbol from the ads.  Its sweet.  I want
one!

The machines here are Athlon 600s with dual Voodoo2s.

--

London rocks.  Coolest place I've ever been to.  I picked
up a couple Bal Sagoth albums and some Emporer, but a
guy here told me about a record shop called Ressurection
that specializes in dark music.  I'll probably check it out
later. 

Not much to say about ECTS.  Its mostly console systems.   
I've been spending most of my time at the Playing Fields
playing UT and talking to people.

London rocks.  Everybody walks here...the city feels like
it actually has a community and the multicultural aspect
is so fucking cool.

Well, I gotta jet.  I'll update with more info later!