Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Sun Sep  5 12:24 (EDT) on ttyp1 from tpfl.demon.co.uk
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Wednesday, September 08, 1999
Raleigh, NC

I'm back in the US after a yucky 9 hour flight.

-- Gameplay changes for party goers.

First the raw data.  We are making a few changes based
on input from the UT party at the Playing Fields.
(I'll get to the party in a second.)

- Increasing the collision size of armor and health pickups.
- Making walk footsteps completely silent.
- Making reported ping remove server frametime.

-- UT party.

This party was amazingly cool.  We had a good sampling from the
Tribes, QuakeWorld, and Quake2 communities.  You could tell players
from each community based on their playing style and the questions
they were asking :)  The QuakeWorld guys were kicking ass with the
PulseGun and the Tribes guys were playing a lot of CTF.  Hehehe.

We ran six free for all prelim rounds with ten players each.  The top
three players from each prelim plus two extra high scorers were put into
the semifinals.  Each semifinal consisted of a ten player free for
all with the two winners playing a one on one for the trophy.

The finals match was between Amok and Hakeem.  It was a great match.
I'm not sure about Amok's background, but Hakeem is one of those
QuakeWorld only guys.  The match rocked, with Hakeem gaining early
control over the armor in DM-Liandri.  About halfway through,
Hakeem disappeared and Amok was able to gain some control over the
central room.  Hakeem popped in and got blasted by Amok's flak cannon.
After that, Hakeem seemed to play near the armor teleporter and was
able to finish Amok off multiple times with the shaft.

After the tourney, we opened the machines up to everyone and I answered
questions.  I played in one CTF match on CTF face that lasted a good
30 minutes.  Gestalt was offering excellent sniper cover for the Red
team and the Blue team (my team) had a hell of a time getting through.

During the party I talked to a lot of players and media types.  Everyone
thought UT kicked ass!  I am so floored.  Its very cool hearing the
hardcore QuakeWorld dudes actually saying they thought your game
was worth playing (these are the guys who passed on Quake2 and Quake3).
I was surprised at the feedback on Assault.  I'm more of a CTF person
myself, but everyone was really loving Assault.  We played about
four Assault maps.  AS-HiSpeed (the train assault mission) got the
highest praise, but they also liked AS-OverLord (the WW2 D-Day mission)
map also.

Most of the negative comments surrounded three issues.  First, that
the pickup radius for items was too small.  (Consider it changed.)
Second, that walking was more or less pointless because footsteps
still made sound.  (Consider it changed.)  Third, that ping
was too high.  I explained that UT's ping calculation is equal
to network ping plus the average frame time of the server, but the
perception that a higher ping is always inferior was still there.
We'll be changing ping so that it reflects network latency.  (What
most people think of when they say ping.)

There is some good event coverage on EuroGamer.  That sniping
bitch Gestalt wrote it (hehehe):

UT Party

Huge huge huge thanks go out to PC Gaming World
for helping underwrite the event.  Specifically, Mat Bettinson, who
assisted in running everything.

Overall the event was excellent.  I was extremely satisfied to present
the game to a diverse group of gamers.  I think we were able to
convert many skeptics into belivers :-)

-- ECTS

ECTS was pretty lame.  There wasn't much to see.  I didn't really
see anything new.  Shrug.

Rune looks very good.  I watched them summon like 10 goblins onto
the screen without any slowdown.  Level of detail rocks. :)  That
was the only PC game there I was really interested in checking out.
I saw most everything else at E3.

-- London

Since ECTS wasn't very compelling I spent most of Monday in Soho. 
London is too cool.  On Monday night people were just hanging out
sitting in front of pubs talking and listening to street muscisians.
On Tuesday I went to Camden Town.  That place is fucking amazing.
Punks, goths, and freaks were just hanging out.  The atmosphere
was great.  I bought a pair of boots and checked out a music store 
called Ressurection Records.  I had a ton of fun and met a lot
of cool people.  I hope I go to ECTS next year ;)

(We weren't showing UT at ECTS, but it seems like nearly every hardware
vendor had it running as a demonstration.  Jack hung out around the
3dfx booth giving demonstrations.)

-- Blue

It looks like Blue thinks he can get away with that YelloMarine
crap behind my back while I'm not around.  Let me tell you
that guy Blue is a punk.  Everyone knows that Loonyboi is the
real power behind Blue's News.  That's why Loonygames is on
summer sabbatical.  He has to do all the work while Blue thinks up
witty quotes of the day ;)

-- Other

I apologize for so shamelessly plugging UT in this update.  I always
get frustrated when I read other people's plans and they are just full
of boring game pimping crappage.  I'm just really excited about the
feedback.  Hehe.