Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Sun Sep  5 12:24 (EDT) on ttyp1 from tpfl.demon.co.uk
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Sunday, September 19, 1999

-- 1:36 AM

NetGames is going to take UT ngWorldStats down for a couple days
until the new UT demo is released.  Since the fix for the multiple-UID
problem requires some client side changes, its best if we just include
the fix when the "full" demo is released.

Taking WorldStats down will allow NetGames to upgrade their database
(they had a new database architecture in the works that will be ready
for deployment in a couple days) and allow them to upgrade the machine
that does the batching and database management.

I apologize for the bug and people not getting to really dig into
ngWorldStats.  We'll get everything sorted out for the full demo.

-- 1:03 AM

I was reading Billox's comments on UT and professional UT play
here:

http://www.unrealtournament.co.uk/content/interviews.shtml


I think that the Redeemer isn't really appropriate for professional
play.  The "No Redeemer" mutator in the full version of UT can be
turned on to remove the Redeemer from matches.  Billox finds that
the Redeemer is pretty unbalanced in one on one and that is very
true.  A wide area blast that causes an auto kill doesn't require any
skill and skill is important in high profile matches.

I suggest anyone considering using UT in a professional game use the 
"No Redeemer" mutator.

Anyway, Billox's comments are a good read.

Definately add www.unrealtournament.co.uk to your bookmark list if
you dig UT.  Brit, Suds, and Hakeem are always on the ball with
updates.  Suds is a hardcore teamplayer and Hak is a hardcore
Quakeworlder.  They are working hard to advocate UT's use in
professional play (as well as giving me and the rest of the
Epic team some good feedback on the way the game is shaping up).

Overall, it looks like a huge majority of players are digging
the feel and gameplay of UT.  That rocks.  UT is being developed
with both the novice player and the hardcore player in mind, so
keep the feedback rolling.

-- 12:27 AM

Found the WorldStats problem.  Probably won't be able to hook people
up with a fix until the next demo.  The next demo will probably
consist of a full download for people that haven't downloaded it yet
and a patch for everyone else.  After that we won't patch the demo
anymore and will focus on the full game.

I've reenabled the ability to change your name during World logged
games.  This will be available in the next demo.

Saturday, September 18, 1999

-- 10:51 PM

I'm working with the NetGames guys on ngWorldStats.  There is bug
in the password transmission code that causes multiple accounts
to be created for a character across seperate servers.  (My bug.)
They are working on fixing some backlog issues to make the stats
system update faster.  Once we get everything working, we'll probably
wipe stats.

Friday, September 17, 1999

-- 10:42 PM

I've fixed problems with the Epic master server and we're redirecting
all UT clients to it now.  (This remote updating stuff rocks!)
The UT master server should allow for much faster server list and
pinging than the GameSpy master server.

I believe there is a problem with UT creating a new WorldStats account
for players each time it starts.  I'll look into that and either prepare
a solution or integrate a solution into the next demo.

Jack has fixed some nasty issues with remote administration. Thanks to
Smokey for giving us the heads up on that one.  A new remote admin tool
will probably be available soon.

-- 7:41 PM

I live...again!

Just woke up.  Getting caught up on demo release.

One thing to note: If you don't like using the orders menu with
the 'v' key, you can bind individual orders to keys using the
"Speech Binder" under Preferences.

-- 11:14 AM

I can't stay awake much longer.  I'm going home to sleep.  Hopefully
3dfx will have released the demo the time I get back.  Grr.

When I get back in the office tonight I'll finish updating the Linux
server and put together a dedicated server distribution.

Jack is writing an updated server administration document he'll put
online in a few.

-- 4:37 AM

Sorry the demo wasn't out yesterday.  3dfx worked all night on getting
their infrastructure ready to handle the demand.  They are targeting demo
release for Friday morning.

While they were working that out, Tim and I updated the demo archive.
I put the ngStats fix in there so it is not necessary to download it.
That's one good thing.

Based on feedback from testers, I've reevaluated my method of calculating 
ping in UT.  After ECTS I decided to convince Tim we should subtract 
frametime from the ping calculation.  This would result in the ping being a direct
reflection of network performance (or close enough).

In retrospect this was a flawed decision for various reasons.  I have
changed the ping calculation to better reflect gameplay.  This means
that you might see a ping higher than you would expect when you join
a server.  I feel that this is better than seeing a lower ping than
you would expect.  I would rather you say "I'm getting a good game here, 
although my ping seems high" than "If my ping is this low, I should be 
getting better gameplay."

Big thanks go to Evil Avatar.  I sent him various test DLLs with changes
in the way I calculated ping.  He then ran the game and played for a while.
When he exited he told me the ping that my changes reflected and whether
or not the gameplay felt to be at that level.  We tested three or four
variations and ultimately settled on the one I felt was the best
in theory and turned out to be the best in practice.

You would be surprised how much ping can affect ones perception of a
match even if the actual conditions behind a match are the same.
I feel the current ping report more accurately reflects what people
have come to expect from net gameplay.  That removes some of the butterflies
from my stomach, but I'm still apprehensive.  This is the first demo of 
my first commercial game so I'm pretty nervous!!

Make good use of utbugs@epicgames.com to send us feedback.  We'll definately
be reading it.

Thursday, September 16, 1999

-- 11:46 PM

ROFL!  Talking on IRC I got the impression that some might think I harbor
some ill will towards Blue of Blue's News.

My .plan updates are jokes.  Inside jokes between Blue and I.  At E3
I had a YelloThere tshirt that said "Blue? Never heard of him ;-)" on
the back.  Blue called me "YelloMarine" because of it.

So I poke a little fun at Blue from time to time.  He reciprocates by
refering to the joke by calling me "VariousColorsHereMarine."

Its all an elaborate ruse to make you think that Blue has a sense
of humour.  (When in fact, most of his joke material is written
by Loonyboi.)

-- 8:06 PM

You should snag the ngStats fix for the 3dfx demo if you are going to be
downloading it.  The link is here:


http://www.netgamesusa.com/downloads/Patch_UT_ngStats_3dfxDemo_v1.0.1_16_Sept_1999.zip


Just copy the ngStats.exe over the one included in the demo and you are set.

-- 6:27 PM

Okay, the version of ngStats in the 3dfx demo has a pr