Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Sun Sep  5 12:24 (EDT) on ttyp1 from tpfl.demon.co.uk
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Saturday, September 18, 1999

-- 10:51 PM

I'm working with the NetGames guys on ngWorldStats.  There is bug
in the password transmission code that causes multiple accounts
to be created for a character across seperate servers.  (My bug.)
They are working on fixing some backlog issues to make the stats
system update faster.  Once we get everything working, we'll probably
wipe stats.

Friday, September 17, 1999

-- 10:42 PM

I've fixed problems with the Epic master server and we're redirecting
all UT clients to it now.  (This remote updating stuff rocks!)
The UT master server should allow for much faster server list and
pinging than the GameSpy master server.

I believe there is a problem with UT creating a new WorldStats account
for players each time it starts.  I'll look into that and either prepare
a solution or integrate a solution into the next demo.

Jack has fixed some nasty issues with remote administration. Thanks to
Smokey for giving us the heads up on that one.  A new remote admin tool
will probably be available soon.

-- 7:41 PM

I live...again!

Just woke up.  Getting caught up on demo release.

One thing to note: If you don't like using the orders menu with
the 'v' key, you can bind individual orders to keys using the
"Speech Binder" under Preferences.

-- 11:14 AM

I can't stay awake much longer.  I'm going home to sleep.  Hopefully
3dfx will have released the demo the time I get back.  Grr.

When I get back in the office tonight I'll finish updating the Linux
server and put together a dedicated server distribution.

Jack is writing an updated server administration document he'll put
online in a few.

-- 4:37 AM

Sorry the demo wasn't out yesterday.  3dfx worked all night on getting
their infrastructure ready to handle the demand.  They are targeting demo
release for Friday morning.

While they were working that out, Tim and I updated the demo archive.
I put the ngStats fix in there so it is not necessary to download it.
That's one good thing.

Based on feedback from testers, I've reevaluated my method of calculating 
ping in UT.  After ECTS I decided to convince Tim we should subtract 
frametime from the ping calculation.  This would result in the ping being a direct
reflection of network performance (or close enough).

In retrospect this was a flawed decision for various reasons.  I have
changed the ping calculation to better reflect gameplay.  This means
that you might see a ping higher than you would expect when you join
a server.  I feel that this is better than seeing a lower ping than
you would expect.  I would rather you say "I'm getting a good game here, 
although my ping seems high" than "If my ping is this low, I should be 
getting better gameplay."

Big thanks go to Evil Avatar.  I sent him various test DLLs with changes
in the way I calculated ping.  He then ran the game and played for a while.
When he exited he told me the ping that my changes reflected and whether
or not the gameplay felt to be at that level.  We tested three or four
variations and ultimately settled on the one I felt was the best
in theory and turned out to be the best in practice.

You would be surprised how much ping can affect ones perception of a
match even if the actual conditions behind a match are the same.
I feel the current ping report more accurately reflects what people
have come to expect from net gameplay.  That removes some of the butterflies
from my stomach, but I'm still apprehensive.  This is the first demo of 
my first commercial game so I'm pretty nervous!!

Make good use of utbugs@epicgames.com to send us feedback.  We'll definately
be reading it.

Thursday, September 16, 1999

-- 11:46 PM

ROFL!  Talking on IRC I got the impression that some might think I harbor
some ill will towards Blue of Blue's News.

My .plan updates are jokes.  Inside jokes between Blue and I.  At E3
I had a YelloThere tshirt that said "Blue? Never heard of him ;-)" on
the back.  Blue called me "YelloMarine" because of it.

So I poke a little fun at Blue from time to time.  He reciprocates by
refering to the joke by calling me "VariousColorsHereMarine."

Its all an elaborate ruse to make you think that Blue has a sense
of humour.  (When in fact, most of his joke material is written
by Loonyboi.)

-- 8:06 PM

You should snag the ngStats fix for the 3dfx demo if you are going to be
downloading it.  The link is here:


http://www.netgamesusa.com/downloads/Patch_UT_ngStats_3dfxDemo_v1.0.1_16_Sept_1999.zip


Just copy the ngStats.exe over the one included in the demo and you are set.

-- 6:27 PM

Okay, the version of ngStats in the 3dfx demo has a problem with it.  It causes
the player's name to show up wrong when you view your stats.  The NetGames guys
are putting together a fix and will have a new ngStats for UT distribution
on their website soon.  Probably before the demo hits the net.  I'll update
my plan and our various webpages with the URL when its available.  Only
people downloading the 3dfx UT demo and playing with [local] ngStats will
need to get this fix.  I suggest you get it when its available because ngStats
is cool and fun to play with.

What else?

When you first play UT make sure you pick a skill level that suits your abilities.
UT's first four skill levels are easier, so that if Joe Average buys the game he
can have fun without getting spanked by the bots.  If you play online, chances
are you'll want to pick one of the top 4 skill levels.  In the full version of UT,
the skill level will ramp up as you play.  In the demo it does this a little, but
because there are only 5 maps its hard to feel the ramping.

I'll mirror this update on the techpage.

The in-game News Page will report information on the status of the NetGames fix
once it becomes available.

--------

The demo is in 3dfx's hands.  They'll release it once they and their partners 
are ready to handle the demand.

Server operators should check out the remote admin tool in the demo.  You can
turn it on under "Networking->Web Based Server Administration" in the advanced
options dialog.

When its on and you've set your username and password, surf to
http://YourServersIP/ServerAdmin to log in.

Server Admins should probably run servers with a playerlimit of around
8 to 10.  The deathmatch maps in the demo aren't really large enough to handle big
free for alls.
	
    