Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Sun Sep  5 12:24 (EDT) on ttyp1 from tpfl.demon.co.uk
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:

Tuedsay, September 21, 1999

-- 11:13 PM

UT Preview:
http://www.mpog.com/previews/software/unrealtournament/

I started playing Warhammer 40k again.  Not playing so much as
starting on a few Eldar Guardian squads.  The 3rd edition rules
are cool and Games Workshop is doing a lot to lower the cost
of the game.  They've taken out a lot of the background story that
used to be in the codexes making them smaller and much more
affordable.  They've also started rolling out a lot of new
plastics that are a hell of a lot cheaper than pewter.  The plastics
have great detail.  (The guardians rock!)

I think I'm going to go for a Gunmetal-on-Black scheme for my
Eldar.  Its a Dark Eldar scheme, but I'm going to be running
a force of Chaos Hunters that hail from Ulthwe Craftworld.
The force itself isn't stationed on Ulthwe Craftworld, but on an
expeditionary cruiser called the Altansarsurath or
"Wrath of the Altansar."

Vashar Kunadras, my Farseer, has seen the black winds of the
Rhana Dandra in a vision and seeks to recover the Altansar from
the Eye of Chaos in preparation for that great battle.  In his
vision, the Altansar leads the forces of the Glorious Race into
terrible battle against the Empire of Humanity.  Vashar
believes (truthfully) that his task has been impressed upon his
spirit by Kaela Mensha Khaine himself.

The Council of the Ulthwe have given Vashar command of the
Altansarsurath from which to launch his quest.  They have also
bestowed upon him five hundred Spirit Gems containing the souls
of Altansarian Aspect Warriors.  Should Vashar find the Altansar,
he would be able to restore a great force of Wraith-Guard
to fight for the Glory of the Bloody-Handed God at Rhana
Dandra.  To protect these Spirit Gems and to cut a deep wound
against the Daemons of the Eye, the Council set aside a
force of elite warriors to pilot the Altansarsurath -- The 
Karakas Loroth or "Walkers in Deep Shadow."

Truly this quest is the Will of Khaine!  The lost one,
Maugan Ra, has appeared from time to time to fight along
side the warriors of the Karakas Loroth and the Siun Dallae
of the Ulthwe Craftworld has pledged his Blood and Will to 
their victory!

No human or Daemon alike will stand in the way of
Vashar Kunadras great vision.  On to the Rhana Dandra and may
Khaine grant us the Galaxy!