Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Sun Sep  5 12:24 (EDT) on ttyp1 from tpfl.demon.co.uk
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Saturday, September 25, 1999

Oooh, the Linux server ran all night with some bots running around shooting each other.
No memory leaks and it didn't crash.  Rock.  I did some play testing with it yesterday
and it seems ready to go.

I suppose after the final demo is released I'll make the final push to finish the client.
(Its a bunch of crappy little boring long painful things to get the performance up.  Like
figure out why PGCC gives me an internal compiler error.  Stuff that is great to procrastinate
about!!)

Yesterday's plan update earned more EMail feedback than any other.  I guess this indicates
that my .plan doesn't really need any worthwhile content at all to be entertaining.  I'll
keep that in mind.

Actually, I wasn't really frustrated or angry about anything work related.  I was actually
really tired after having been up all night and I had just finished listening to
Emporer: Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk six times in a row.  The combination made me suddenly
want to update my .plan with a little WWWAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRGH!  Alan has been listening
to alot of GWAR lately and I suspect there is something subconscious going on there.

I saw on Evil Avatar's that Todd McFarlane is doing monster design for Ultima Online 2.

If you listen to music while you work, you might dig the KGIB MPEG Radio stations:

http://www.mpegradio.com/

There are no advertisements and the music is pretty good.  Last night they played three
Delerium songs.  The Goth channel isn't really Goth.  Its more like...what people think
Goths might listen to.

I was going to say something else here but I forgot.

Oh, one other thing.  If you live in London, England don't go out at night or
LORD VAUGN MIGHT DRINK YOUR SOUL.

MUAHAHAHAHAHAHA
	
    