Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Sun Oct 17 01:11 (EDT) on ttyp0 from 216.27.43.214
   7 minutes 24 seconds idle
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Aug 20 17:58 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Sunday, October 17, 1999

A few people have emailed me asking about the status of the Linux
client.  Its ready for release any time, but isn't compatible with
the current demo.  We have plans to release a patch for the demo
at some point.  When that is done, the Linux client will be 
synchronized with the demo and I can release it.

Here is the status of the Linux client todo list:

! Sound volume too loud? Need to be more aggressive with volume?
! Sound quality could be better.
! XClient fails to restore keyrepeat on window manager upon exit.
! Hyphen and equals key sending the wrong KeyType?
! Occaisional seg fault on shutdown.
! Need to flush log more often during shutdown in case of seg fault.
! Need to move FLightManager::Merge to assembly.
! Need to move UnRender.cpp / static Pipe to assembly.
! Argument passing to external procs is broken. Fix for ngStats.
! Do an installer.
! Update the Mesa renderer.

The performance of the client is comparable to win32 in most scenes.
Because FLightManager::Merge is using a C++ algorithm instead of
an optimized assembly algorithm like the win32 counterpart, dynamic
lighting is slow.  Right now, users will want to turn off dynamic
lighting.

Control seems pretty good.  I'm not using the X windows DGA extension
right now, but many people have recommended it.  Most recommendations
do not come with reasoning, but I'll look into it.

The client is very playable.  I really need to put together an installer
for it, but porting our installer isn't exactly the most attractive
of potential projects.  :)

About three weeks ago, I got that setjmp/longjmp crap working so now
I can safely recover from segmentation faults and print a stack trace
during shutdown.

I apologize that we haven't been able to get this out sooner, but
it wasn't ready when the demo was released and I broke compatibility
soon after.  It isn't languishing on my drive.  In between fixes
to UT proper, I've been able to get in some work on the client.

Almost forgot! Right now the client only works with glide.  I need
to slap a G400 in my machine or something and finish up the Mesa
renderer.  I tried to do this two weeks ago, but had a hell of a time
with my TNT2.