Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Wed Oct 20 00:46 (EDT) on ttyp2 from 216.27.43.214
   5 minutes 32 seconds idle
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Tue Oct 19 04:00 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Tuesday, October 19, 1999

The new linux server and the linux client will be available real soon.
Any time now.  A god damn string processing crash popped up at the
last fragging minute in code that worked before in a really obscure
condition that happens when you connect to a server and its really
pissing me off.  But it'll be ready soon :)

--
Perhaps that's a little harsh.  I know where the dude is coming
from, I just don't really care enough to spell check my .plan.
Maybe people think I'm a total idiot for the things I say in
my .plan and they way I spell them, but I just don't really care
about that either.
--
Some dude emailed me to point out that using "irregardless"
is not a word.  In fact, I often make typos because I
am a mediocre speller.  However, I believe that a person of 
average intelligence and normal mental faculty is able to 
derive meaning from my scrawlings here.  I make my .plan
updates for interested gamers, not English professors.
So anyone who wants to complain about my lack of mastery over 
the English language can bite me.  No offense to gamers who
might also be English professors, of course. ;-)
--

I wonder how FamilyPC can get off calling it a "typo."  A typo
is a mistake in printed matter resulting from mechanical
failure of some kind.  Irregardless if the element in question
was not intended for printing, someone WROTE it.  Someone put
those words in that particular order and then submited it.
Some editor somewhere okayed it.  I do not consider this to be a
typo.

Anyway.  Found another cool death metal band.  "Enthroned."  Picked
up their '97 album "Towards the Skullthrone of Satan."

Linux Client News!

I've adapted the Loki Entertainment installer to UT.  I changed some
features I didn't like and added a couple others.  I don't know
gtk+ very well, so I'm not straying very far.  It only took me
about five minutes to get the basic installer up and running.  MegaHuge
dittos to Loki for sharing this cool bit o' software with the rest
of us.

I've also done lots and lots of fixes to the Linux client. And guess what?
Are you guessing?  UT for Linux will be on the retail CD.  The installer
will be on the first CD's root directory with a nice fat README
on how to get it working.

Linux ngStats and ngWorldStats are working.  I found out that my audio
volume issues were not a problem with my code, but due to the fact
that my default mixer setting was 100% master volume.

I toasted my Win2000 drives and converted them to Linux filesystems and
learned more about X and KDE.

All in all I worked on the Linux port for a nice 24 hour period yesterday.
The exploits of one Randall Waterhouse inspired me to great acts 
of prolonged hackery.

Speaking of which, I was reading the "Snow Crash" review thread on
Slashdot and got a little pissed.  One guy there was saying something
like "oh I wish there were more resources on books for geeks."  I'm
thinking "what the fuck?"  Its called a bookstore dude.  A library.
You just aren't a reader if you need someone to hand you a book and
say "try this."  And if you aren't a reader, you are a worthless shell
of a man unworthy of respect or admiration from your fellows.

Right now I am reading "The Man Who Loved Only Numbers."  Its a
biography of Paul Erdos.  Just started on it.  Next on the list
is "Mountain of Black Glass" by Tad Williams.  Its the third book
in his fucking incredible Otherland series.

Check this out.  Two realy cool pictures of Panzergrenadier General
Heinz Guderian standing over an Enigma:

http://cryptome.org/enigma2.htm

Steve Polge has rejected design submissions to add a skill level
above "Godlike."  The proposed skill level was to be called
"Weiderlike" and would feature the bots "rolling on outta here."

Har har.  ;)
	
    