Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Thu Oct 21 16:37 (EDT) on ttyp2 from 216.27.43.214
   27 minutes 7 seconds idle
On since Thu Oct 21 16:45 (EDT) on ttyp3 from 216.27.43.234
   15 minutes idle
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Thu Oct 21 16:37 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Thursday, October 21, 1999

Linux Stuff

The Linux client doesn't have music.  I forgot to mention that in the
readme.  I haven't written a player for my Audio library yet and porting
the Galaxy player is out of the question.  This is fairly low priority.

The UT client will actually work with any glibc 2.x even though I
state in the README it only works with glibc 2.1.

There appears to be a problem with the SoundBlaster Live! and the client.
SoundBlaster Live! owners that are able to get the client working with
sound should email me.  When I get a chance, I'll install a SB Live! in
my Linux box and track down the problem.

Today I added a fix from Mike Danylchuk that will make recovering from
system signals nearly 100% successful.  Mike initiated the original
Linux server port of UT by porting the Core library before I took over.

I've also added the ability for people to iconify the game, do other stuff,
then restore the icon to continue playing.  You can enter "iconify"
in the console or just hit alt-tab if your window manager supports that.

I'll release an update soon that will have these fixes.  My next task
is to look at the various crash logs a few people have sent in.  Then
I'll work on the Mesa renderer and work on performance improvements.

A Slashdot poster expressed anger over my section in the readme about
what happens if the game crashes and doesn't properly shutdown.  The
purpose of the section was to explain to the user why his system
was behaving oddly (in the case of, say, the mouse cursor not changing).
The Linux client is a work in progress and should be treated as such.
The Slashdot poster in question said he was shocked that the game
might crash his server and that he might have to restart his X
server.

You shouldn't be running games on your server.  Especially not
experimental new clients.  Because the UT client is a work in progress
some people will have a better time with it than others.  The best
you can do for the project is to email me your crashlogs.  I may
not respond to the email, but I will look at the crashlog.  Sometimes
I email for more information or ask the person to try a possible
solution.

One other thing.  I thought (incorrectly) that tar would set the
unarchived file's user and group to the user and group of the person
who ran tar.  Duh.  All of the files in the archive except a few have
the permissions greenmarine:greenmarine (except greenmarine is
truncated to be greenmar hehe).

You can do something like the following to fix it:
chown -R root:root utdemo/
chmod -R g-w utdemo/
chmod -R a+r utdemo/

Thanks to Daniel Erat for pointing this out.  I'll make sure future
tars have the correct permissions set.

I may disable user specific ~/.utconf files until I have a chance to
do it right.  A few people have had trouble with them.

---

Haha. Turns out the article below is a tabloid.  Figures I would get pissed
about something that was intended to be a joke.  Hey, my points still stand. :)
Next time I'll try to be a little more observant, eh?

---


http://www.weeklyworldnews.com/stories/1476.html

Is this not the lamest bunch of crap you have ever read?  I strongly
oppose the implications suggested here.  Dr. Carmotta is saying that
geeks are attracted to loser girls.  What the hell is that about?
From my experience geeks (using the Slashdot definition) are attracted
to intelligent, self-confident, insightful women who know what they
are about.

Sexual predators and wife abusers go for the nervous, self-aware,
slumpy type.  Geeks go for the girls who have sharp minds and
the desire and ability to express it. 
	
    