Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Thu Oct 21 16:37 (EDT) on ttyp2 from 216.27.43.214
   8 minutes 9 seconds idle
On since Thu Oct 21 16:45 (EDT) on ttyp3 from 216.27.43.234
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Thu Oct 21 16:37 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Thursday, October 21, 1999

Linux Stuff

The Linux client doesn't have music.  I forgot to mention that in the
readme.  I haven't written a player for my Audio library yet and porting
the Galaxy player is out of the question.  This is fairly low priority.

The UT client will actually work with any glibc 2.x even though I
state in the README it only works with glibc 2.1.

There appears to be a problem with the SoundBlaster Live! and the client.
SoundBlaster Live! owners that are able to get the client working with
sound should email me.  When I get a chance, I'll install a SB Live! in
my Linux box and track down the problem.

Today I added a fix from Mike Danylchuk that will make recovering from
system signals nearly 100% successful.  Mike initiated the original
Linux server port of UT by porting the Core library before I took over.

I've also added the ability for people to iconify the game, do other stuff,
then restore the icon to continue playing.  You can enter "iconify"
in the console or just hit alt-tab if your window manager supports that.

I'll release an update soon that will have these fixes.  My next task
is to look at the various crash logs a few people have sent in.  Then
I'll work on the Mesa renderer and work on performance improvements.

---

Haha. Turns out the article is a tabloid.  Figures I would get pissed
about something that was intended to be a joke.  Hey, my points
still stand. :)

---


http://www.weeklyworldnews.com/stories/1476.html

Is this not the lamest bunch of crap you have ever read?  I strongly
oppose the implications suggested here.  Dr. Carmotta is saying that
geeks are attracted to loser girls.  What the hell is that about?
From my experience geeks (using the Slashdot definition) are attracted
to intelligent, self-confident, insightful women who know what they
are about.

Sexual predators and wife abusers go for the nervous, self-aware,
slumpy type.  Geeks go for the girls who have sharp minds and
the desire and ability to express it.