Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Mon Nov 29 18:46 (EST) on ttyp0 from 216.27.43.159
   18 minutes 9 seconds idle
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Mon Nov 29 04:00 1999 (EST)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Monday, November 29, 1999

Jack is going to put the new Linux UT distribution up on
unreal.epicgames.com soon.  Everyone should download this.
If you already have UT installed, just unarchive the
LinuxCoreSystem.tar.gz file in your UnrealTournament directory.
Otherwise, install as normal.

This version fixes problems with the installer.  I've had
a couple people outside Epic test it and they say it
works great.  Send feedback or questions to
utlinuxbugs@epicgames.com.

This version also has other improvements.  DGA mouse is
now the default.  If you are using XFree86 3.3.3, you'll
need to disable it by editing the UnrealTournament.ini
(or Default.ini if its your first run) and changing
DGAMouseEnabled to false.  DGA mouse improves mouse
performance quite a bit.

I've also turned off function guarding.  This means
that the game won't spit out detailed information when it
crashes, but it gives a pretty decent speed up.

Finally, I've included Erik's optimized bit copier.  This
should make dedicated server performance better.
This will be available for windows server operators with
a maintenence patch that will be released later this
week.

On to other stuff.

Cliff, James, and I have been absorbed by the Half-Life
Counterstrike mod.  This mod is so kick ass.  Maybe
I can use my position as a developer to influence the
game?  Counterstrike developers: Please please please
add a Steyr Aug to the game.  That's my favorite
gun and I'd love to blow away anti-terrorism teams with
it.  :)

Over Thanksgiving I installed Caldera's OpenLinux
distribution for my father.  I was surprised at the
ease of installation.  The entire process was graphical,
and while the files installed it asked you configuration
questions.  This is exactly the kind of stuff Linux
needs to attract less geekish users.

I bought a few new CDs.  Here is what I'm listening to:

Dismember - "Death Metal"
Dismember - "Massive Killing Capacity"
Hecate Enthroned - "Upon Promeathean Shores"
Ancient - "The Halls of Eternity"
Arcturus - "Aspera Hiems Symfonia"