Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Fri Mar 24 12:10 (EST) on ttyp1 from 216.27.43.206
   16 minutes 4 seconds idle
Last login Fri Mar 24 12:16 (EST) on ttyp2 from 216.27.43.200
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Fri Mar 24 03:00 2000 (EST)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Friday, March 24, 2000

I got the new Cradle of Filth EP "From the Cradle to Enslave" and the
first HammerFall release "Glory to the Brave."  I'm going to put
up a site called www.FantasyMetal.com that will focus on fantasy metal
bands (Like Bal-Sagoth, HammerFall, Iced Earth, and Blind Guardian).
I will either not include Black Metal or leave Black Metal as a subsection.

I think there are enough sites focusing on Black Metal already.  I want
to put together a nice looking site with lots of information on the
small, but steadily growing, Fantasy Metal genre.  I would classify
a Fantasy Metal band as being any band with metal influences and 
non-gothic fantasy lyrics.  (More black dragon and less vampire.)

If you are interested in learning about fantasy metal I suggest the
following albums:

Bal-Sagoth, "The Power Cosmic"
Bal-Sagoth, "Battle Magic"
Bal-Sagoth, "Starfire Burning Upon The Ice-Veiled Throne of Ultima Thule"
Iced Earth, "Alive in Athens"
Blind Guardian, "Night Falls in Middle Earth"

If you are interested in learning about black metal, you should start
with the following:

Cradle of Filth, "The Principle of Evil Made Flesh"
Emperor, "Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk"
Dimmu Borgir, "Enthrone Darkness Triumphant"

I also suggest you go to your local record store and look through all the
CD releases from the "Metal Blade" and "Nuclear Blast" labels.  You'll
find a lot of really good Fantasy Metal bands on "Nuclear Blast," which
is a German label.  "Metal Blade" carries a lot of black and death metal
bands.  Finally, Century Black and Century Media have a ton of kick ass
black metal bands.

Blodu Ok Jarna!

Oh, one other thing.  A lot of black metal bands are ditching the evil
"we are vampires" thing and going with a more conservative "we are
viking warriors" thing.  I think that switch in the music coming from
Norway, Germany, and the surrounding areas will help fuel the Fantasy
Metal scene.  Probably the coolest part of this switch is the movement
towards storytelling and ballads as opposed to one-off anthems.
	
    