Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Wed May  3 19:51 (EDT) on ttyp1 from 216.27.43.200
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
No mail.
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Wednesday, May 03, 2000

7:48 PM

We played Legend in a Legend vs Epic CTF match.  They creamed us.
I can only say that the final scores are too embarassing to post. :)
I will blame it on the fact that nobody at Epic has played too much
UT lately because we've been so busy with E3 and plans for the next
project. 

Wednesday, May 03, 2000

Game Recommandations.

Ray Man 2, Dreamcast.  Just check it out...as Shane Caudle says,
"Its a cartoon you can play."  The best 3D platform jumper I've played.

Thief 2.  Amazingly cool game from my current favorite development
house, Looking Glass.  This game is incredible and is much better than
the original Thief.  A much more mature first person game than most...
not in content, but in gameplay.  Mature where maturity matters :)
Great cutscenes, great story, great gameplay, great engine.

Allegiance.  Uh oh, this is fast becoming my new crack.  Allegiance is
excellent.  Totally breaks away from most team oriented games.  In
Allegiance, strategy wins the game, not individual heroism.  You have
to have a shit hot commander who can pull a team together.  One who
isn't afraid to kick a loser off the team and who knows the metagame.
Ah! Metagame! Hopefully we'll see more massively multiplayer games
exhibiting the coolness that is a strong metagame.  The metagame is the
game of games, the macrogame.  In Allegiance, there are clear tactics
and counter-tactics.  While you, the player, fly your ship in combat,
your team's overall positioning and movement is much more important in
dictating the outcome of the game. 

Allegiance usually has a big 100+ player game every evening.  One of the
great things about the game is that you get to know players pretty well.
You find certain players become enemies and others friends.  You find
yourself playing along side the same people and forming unspoken tactics.
For example, whenever I play with Geminii as my CO, I know my first duty
is to jump in a scout and uncover as much of the map as possible.  And
whenever I play with Zarniwoop from Legend, I know to fly past him when
he's floundering in his escape pod. :)

If you see me in the game, say hi.  My name is GreenMarine, as usual,
and I'm currently Joker rank in the Belters!  Die to be Free! 

Got a bunch of new CDs.  Here is my playlist:

Runemagick - "The Supreme Force of Eternity"
Bal-Sagoth - "A Black Moon Broods Over Lemuria"
Stormlord  - "Supreme Art of War"
Darkthrone - "A Blaze in the Northern Sky"
Enthroned  - "Prophecies of Pagan Fire"
Burzum     - "Det Som Engang Var" 
Dark Moor  - "Shadowland"