Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Ancillary Documentation

Wow, an actual weekend of nothing but rest, games, reading, and anime.

Since the E3 video for Duke Nukem Forever is finished, the team had the past 3 days or so off to take things easy.  I'm very pleased with the way the trailer ended up.  Everyone on the team worked their asses off the past couple weeks to make sure everything that might end up in the video was ready.  Turns out a lot of good stuff didn't even get filmed and lot of other good stuff ended up on the editing room floor.  There was just too much cool stuff to fit into our vision for the trailer.

Ah, why hold back?  THE TRAILER ROCKS!  I can't wait to see what people have to say about it.

I also have to say that I have been very impressed with the quality of assistance that Gathering of Developers has supplied us.  All of the trailer video capture and editing was done on site at the 3DR offices.  John Gibson and Doug Myers did a hell of a job pulling everything together and weathering the team's input.

Doug passed away on May 3rd...I didn't know him except from last week and all I can say is that the game industry has lost a gifted and dedicated person.

--

Hellchick has posted an editorial at 3D Action Planet on the issue of mod authors and intellectual property.  I thought I'd post a link to it here.  Partly because it has a weird picture of that Deus Ex guy with a crosshair on his lip and partly because it reflects my own views on the issue.

http://www.3dactionplanet.com/features/editorials/q3dmhellchick5/

--

I bought the Tenchi Muyo Ultimate Collection DVD set.  It's three DVDs containing the entire Tenchi Muyo OVA series as well as a Tenchi encylopedia.  I watched about half of it this weekend.  I also watched the first Tenchi Movie.  Brian Cozzens and I have also been watching Evangelion.  I haven't seen the series yet (only the first 4 episodes) and Brian is rewatching it.  In addition to that, Lee Jackson supplied me with the fansubs to the first season of Pretty Soldier Sailor Moon and I'm about eight episodes into that.

I was also able to get my Everquest character, Borjoyzee, up to level 24.  He's a mage on the Terris-Thule server.  I used to utterly despise Everquest considering it a lame Diku rip off, but as I play it more I have come to respect it.  It has a really diverse amount of gameplay and it seems the game changes dynamically every few levels or so.  I'm looking forward to the new add on.  Keith supplied me with an Elemental Binder to go along with my torn pages of mastery, so now I have three of the thirty or forty items I need for my Epic Quest!  I'll be uber in no time!

I've also been playing Fallout Tactics and The Moon Project.  AND Stephen Cole and I have been replaying System Shock 2 in cooperative mode.  I'm pure hacker (only been using pistols for offense) and he's pure psi.  This is probably my forth or fifth time through System Shock 2 and I'm still finding new stuff in the game.

"They got Korenchkin, but that bastard was weak.  I am not weak.  I can resist this cancer...and if I cannot...I will remove it.  Forcibly.  God save the UNN."
	
    