
Name: Brian Raffel
Email: braffel@ravensoft.com
Description: Project Director / Designer
Project: General
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

April 10th,


Raven is looking for Animators.

If you are an Animator and want to apply send applications and tapes to me at:


	Raven Software
	ATTN: Brian Raffel
	3point place Suite #1
	Madison,WI 53719

We prefer SoftImage or XSI experience.


Thanks!
 







June 23th 2000

I just want to thank everyone at Raven Software for helping my brother and I reach our ten year 
anniversary in business!

Raven Software started back in 1990 with our first game Black Crypt on the good ol'Amiga back when four guys
could do a game. 

We owe alot of people for helping us stay in business for this long. id software of course is the cornerstone
 to all of our games as well as Activision for acquiring us and being so generous with our budgets and equipment.

Thanks! 

Brian Raffel








April 18th

I have received over 200 emails with suggestions for SOF2 imput.

Thanks! 

This will help us out alot in our proposal to Activision.

Seems most would like to have all realistic military weapons and more GHOUL enhancements, which is
exactly what we are thinking of.

We are also VERY proud and thankful that SOF is in the #2 slot for sales two weeks in a row!

SOF is on track to be Ravens BEST selling title ever! Thanks to all who have purchased it.

A lot of people wanted me to say hello to John Mullins but if you want to email him directly with comments
or questions here is his email address he wanted me to give out

johnfmullins@hotmail.com  

Please dont ask him to kill anyone he doesnt do that sort of thing. (now) =)






April 13th

John Mullins is at Raven Today!

We are in the process of proposing SOF2 and wanted Johns input on the mission/weapons ect.

If you have any solid suggestions for SOF2 send us an email.








March 9th 2000

Hey if there anyone who wants to fight some of us Ravenites in the SOF demo, Meet us tonight on 

RAVENSERVER at 5:30 PM CENTRAL TIME

There will be about 3-4 of us and we hope to win all top spots.

I will be MARTEK.








Feb 24th 2000

For those of you interested - If you check out GameSpot's Designer Diary of SOF I posted a small story
on our meeting with John Mullins and what he did to help us on SOF.

Also, check out WWW.Planetsoldier.com and check out the hooded terriorist. 




Feb 16th 2000

Wow wouldn't you know - we are knee deep in trying to go gold with SOF and the S_ _ t hits the fan.

The cover is blow off SOF in the mushroom! Read the article to see what I mean.
 
http://www.themushroom.com/mush0215/soffraud.html

Now John Mullins has seen this and had this to say about it:

"Lee, eh?  You wouldn't happen to know his home address, would you?  Failing that, his license plate 
number?"

John

Now Chia Chin Lee will not come out from under his desk and we still need to tweek some CTF sounds!

Please submit your sound design resumes to Kevin Schilder c/o Raven Software.




Brian Raffel








January 12th, 2000

I just want to let everyone know that when I said the SOF demo should pass by QA on Friday that 
DOES NOT mean the demo will be out then.  Sorry if that was the conclusion that was made but we will post
a solid date very soon when we are SURE that it is done.  Meanwhile if you would like you can download an
SOF desktop background we just finished if you like.  

Thanks!

Download the <a href="http://www.ravensoft.com/files/SOF_baddies.zip">Desktop Wallpaper</a>.







January 10th, 2000

Well, The SOF Demo is looking VERY good and should pass through QA by the end of this week.  We will 
keep you posted as to when you will be able to down load the demo and from what site.  The Demo will 
include one single player level and two multiplayer levels.

I am also proud to announce that Raven Software will be doing a Playstation2 title, 
which will be announce in the near future.  We are very excited about venturing into the 
console market, particularly on the PX2.  We finally got all of our de