Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Brian Raffel
Email: braffel@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Project Director / Designer
Project: General
Last Updated: 06/24/1999 10:31:26 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
June 24th 1999


 YeeeHAAAAA today is our nine year anniversary of being in business!  My brother Steve and I 
offically formed Raven Software in 1990 and have been lucky enough to beat the odds and stay in
business.  I would very much like to thank id software since with out them we would more than
likely not be here! Also, Activision for allowing us to become part of their great company.
 Well back to working on Soldier of Fortune, Eric Beissman and Scott Rice are waiting for me
 in a meeting.


brian

PS- Sad to say that once again bob love has fallen to my mighty terran tanks.  I look forward to
his excuses in his plan file, hmmm, the planets were not aligned correctly or the sun was in my
eyes. =)









June 22nd 1999


Our new web site is up!

Please check it out at the same old www.ravensoft.com

I have been told that my new picture looks like Mr. Clean.  I guess I need to get
an ear ring....again.

PS- I have now beaten Bob Love in our Favorite RTS 5-6 times....someone teach him to play.








 
March 8th, 1999



	I am pleased to announce that Raven Software will be developing a
Star Trek: Voyager game for Activision.  The title will encompass the 
attributes of both intense first-person shooter action and team oriented 
combat, as you play the role of a security officer fighting alongside 
your fellow security team members. 
	Drawing from the rich Star Trek universe, we will be focusing 
our efforts into creating the most amazing first-person shooter yet, 
with new and intriguing gameplay elements.  We are developing new AI 
and Scripting systems so that the NPC's and enemies will intelligently 
react to their surroundings and situation.
	At this time we are in the early stages of development and more 
information will be forthcoming.  

Look for us showing this title at E3 in May!


***************************************




Dec 15th 1998

IT IS OUT!!!! 

"BLACK CRYPT LIVES"

That is right, we finally put out our first game from the amiga on the PC.

IT was a labor of love working on our first title back in 1988.  It all
started when my brother and I got our c64's and Amiga's.(I loved the Amiga).
We meet up with Rick "SuperFly" Johnson and Ben "Guitar Player" Gokey. My 
Brother Steve and I did all of the Graphics, Maps, and Sound effects!(ok,
Rick did one for the Skeleton Lord). The 4 of us worked on the game design
together and put a demo out.  In 3 days we had 6 contract offers! We wisely
went with EA as the publisher and the rest was history.  One tidbit, at
the time we made this demo I was a high school computer art teacher and 
cross country coach....so to speed things along I bought my team pizza to
in put all of our dungeon maps from paper form into our dungeon editor on the
school amigas!  Now that was a great labor saver!

So download the game demo at "http://www2.ravensoft.com/crypt"

Remember that it is an old style RPG with mouse driven controls and may be 
a little clunky...and that we only had a 64 color pal.

Let me know what you think (unless you hate it!)


Dec 2nd 1998

>>Heretic II  <<

I want to go on record to say that in my opinion Heretic II is the best 
game to date by Raven Software!  I am very proud of this title (first 
since joining forces with Activision) because I feel we delivered a game 
with solid addictive game play in both single and multi player.  I am 
also pleased that we took the time to insure that Heretic II was a stable
 product that includes ALL of the editing tools and source needed to 
allow buyers to create with it what they wished.
     It was a tough choice for us to try 3rd person but we really wanted 
to take a risk and venture out into new territory and I think it was 
worth it.  It really helps to see all of the top-notch reviews we are 
getting for the game.  A lot of 9 out of 10's and above! We also got a 
huge complement from Scott Miller at 3d realms.Thanks Scott!  Now I 
wonder what John R. thinks of Heretic II?  John?
	Raven is really striving to push into new areas while staying 
true to our POV standards.  One of our next titles "Soldier of Fortune" 
(SOF) is looking awesome!  It is such a blast working with real world 
weapons in real world settings. Fantasy is my true love but there is 
something about using a machine gun that can't be beat.  In SOF we have 
used motion capture for ALL the enemies and created a new technology 
called "Ghoul" which allows us to mix and match different attributes to 
enemies so that they each look very different from each other.  I have 
always hated the cookie cutter feel of a horde of foes all looking like 
clones coming at you.  It is cool to see 10 different enemies attacking 
 you in all different sizes and attire.  More on SOF another day and 
talk of gore zones.

	I cannot wait to announce our third project but it should not 
be too much longer.

Compliments to Ritual on "Sin" and Valve on "Half Life" Both are Awesome 
games!!

Brian "Martek" Raffel







October 26, 1998

HERETIC II demo suggestion.

Just wanted to point out what may be obvious to most players but a lot 
seem to miss this.  Since Corvus always has the Tome of Power with him 
]he has the ability to power up his weapons at ALL times. To do this 
requires a large amount of defensive (blue) mana.  So, a good tip is to 
pick up some blue mana and hit your defense key (usually the enter key) 
and power up your weapons...I strongly suggest using it with the red rain!