Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Brian Raffel
Email: braffel@ravensoft.com
Description: Project Director / Designer
Project: General
Last Updated: 05/02/2001 10:55:47 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

April 10th,


Raven is looking for Animators.

If you are an Animator and want to apply send applications and tapes to me at:


	Raven Software
	ATTN: Brian Raffel
	3point place Suite #1
	Madison,WI 53719

We prefer SoftImage or XSI experience.


Thanks!
 







June 23th 2000

I just want to thank everyone at Raven Software for helping my brother and I reach our ten year 
anniversary in business!

Raven Software started back in 1990 with our first game Black Crypt on the good ol'Amiga back when four guys
could do a game. 

We owe alot of people for helping us stay in business for this long. id software of course is the cornerstone
 to all of our games as well as Activision for acquiring us and being so generous with our budgets and equipment.

Thanks! 

Brian Raffel








April 18th

I have received over 200 emails with suggestions for SOF2 imput.

Thanks! 

This will help us out alot in our proposal to Activision.

Seems most would like to have all realistic military weapons and more GHOUL enhancements, which is
exactly what we are thinking of.

We are also VERY proud and thankful that SOF is in the #2 slot for sales two weeks in a row!

SOF is on track to be Ravens BEST selling title ever! Thanks to all who have purchased it.

A lot of people wanted me to say hello to John Mullins but if you want to email him directly with comments
or questions here is his email address he wanted me to give out

johnfmullins@hotmail.com  

Please dont ask him to kill anyone he doesnt do that sort of thing. (now) =)






April 13th

John Mullins is at Raven Today!

We are in the process of proposing SOF2 and wanted Johns input on the mission/weapons ect.

If you have any solid suggestions for SOF2 send us an email.








March 9th 2000

Hey if there anyone who wants to fight some of us Ravenites in the SOF demo, Meet us tonight on 

RAVENSERVER at 5:30 PM CENTRAL TIME

There will be about 3-4 of us and we hope to win all top spots.

I will be MARTEK.








Feb 24th 2000

For those of you interested - If you check out GameSpot's Designer Diary of SOF I posted a small story
on our meeting with John Mullins and what he did to help us on SOF.

Also, check out WWW.Planetsoldier.com and check out the hooded terriorist. 




Feb 16th 2000

Wow wouldn't you know - we are knee deep in trying to go gold with SOF and the S_ _ t hits the fan.

The cover is blow off SOF in the mushroom! Read the article to see what I mean.
 
http://www.themushroom.com/mush0215/soffraud.html

Now John Mullins has seen this and had this to say about it:

"Lee, eh?  You wouldn't happen to know his home address, would you?  Failing that, his license plate 
number?"

John

Now Chia Chin Lee will not come out from under his desk and we still need to tweek some CTF sounds!

Please submit your sound design resumes to Kevin Schilder c/o Raven Software.




Brian Raffel








January 12th, 2000

I just want to let everyone know that when I said the SOF demo should pass by QA on Friday that 
DOES NOT mean the demo will be out then.  Sorry if that was the conclusion that was made but we will post
a solid date very soon when we are SURE that it is done.  Meanwhile if you would like you can download an
SOF desktop background we just finished if you like.  

Thanks!

Download the Desktop Wallpaper.







January 10th, 2000

Well, The SOF Demo is looking VERY good and should pass through QA by the end of this week.  We will 
keep you posted as to when you will be able to down load the demo and from what site.  The Demo will 
include one single player level and two multiplayer levels.

I am also proud to announce that Raven Software will be doing a Playstation2 title, 
which will be announce in the near future.  We are very excited about venturing into the 
console market, particularly on the PX2.  We finally got all of our development systems and they 
are awesome.

Brian.



November 8th, 1999

Wow,

We did a little post about people coming to help test the SOF multiplayer OEM and we were over run!

I feel VERY sorry if you were one of the people we had to turn away, but we could only had enough machines for
30-40 people.

 >>>please email me at braffel@ravensoft.com and I will see that you are put at the top of the list for our 
next testing session. (be honest!)<<<

we have learned that we will schedule people and not leave it open to first come first serve.  We just didnt think
that many people would show up.



For those that did come out THANKS! and email us with any comments of how to improve MP/weapons or any other 
suggestions you may have.  Remember that what you played was an OEM version and of course only about half of 
the weapons and items from the final game were there. We also will be testing the other type of game like
assassin and team deathmatch soon.

Thanks!
Brian Raffel





November 3rd 1999

Hey,

check out the AVAULT Review of the SoF OEM!  
It's very well done and full of great info.

I would like to point out to those concerned about 
the respawning feature that the OEM is Pre-ALPHA and 
we are still working out the kinks. Right now we have 
it set up so enemies only respawn in logical, high-traffic 
areas and not in dead ends.  They also spawn in ahead of you 
and not behind you 95% of the time.  In the full version there 
will be an option to scale this back if it bothers you.


Brian Raffel




June 24th 1999


 YeeeHAAAAA today is our nine year anniversary of being in business!  My brother Steve and I 
offically formed Raven Software in 1990 and have been lucky enough to beat the odds and stay in
business.  I would very much like to thank id software since with out them we would more than
likely not be here! Also, Activision for allowing us to become part of their great company.
 Well back to working on Soldier of Fortune, Eric Beissman and Scott Rice are waiting for me
 in a meeting.


brian

PS- Sad to say that once again bob love has fallen to my mighty terran tanks.  I look forward to
his excuses in his plan file, hmmm, the planets were not aligned correctly or the sun was in my
eyes. =)









June 22nd 1999


Our new web site is up!

Please check it out at the same old www.ravensoft.com

I have been told that my new picture looks like Mr. Clean.  I guess I need to get
an ear ring....again.

PS- I have now beaten Bob Love in our Favorite RTS 5-6 times....someone teach him to play.








 
March 8th, 1999



	I am pleased to announce that Raven Software will be developing a
Star Trek: Voyager game for Activision.  The title will encompass the 
attributes of both intense first-person shooter action and team oriented 
combat, as you play the role of a security officer fighting alongside 
your fellow security team members. 
	Drawing from the rich Star Trek universe, we will be focusing 
our efforts into creating the most amazing first-person shooter yet, 
with new and intriguing gameplay elements.  We are developing new AI 
and Scripting systems so that the NPC's and enemies will intelligently 
react to their surroundings and situation.
	At this time we are in the early stages of development and more 
information will be forthcoming.  

Look for us showing this title at E3 in May!


***************************************




Dec 15th 1998

IT IS OUT!!!! 

"BLACK CRYPT LIVES"

That is right, we finally put out our first game from the amiga on the PC.

IT was a labor of love working on our first title back in 1988.  It all
started when my brother and I got our c64's and Amiga's.(I loved the Amiga).
We meet up with Rick "SuperFly" Johnson and Ben "Guitar Player" Gokey. My 
Brother Steve and I did all of the Graphics, Maps, and Sound effects!(ok,
Rick did one for the Skeleton Lord). The 4 of us worked on the game design
together and put a demo out.  In 3 days we had 6 contract offers! We wisely
went with EA as the publisher and the rest was history.  One tidbit, at
the time we made this demo I was a high school computer art teacher and 
cross country coach....so to speed things along I bought my team pizza to
in put all of our dungeon maps from paper form into our dungeon editor on the
school amigas!  Now that was a great labor saver!

So download the game demo at "http://www2.ravensoft.com/crypt"

Remember that it is an old style RPG with mouse driven controls and may be 
a little clunky...and that we only had a 64 color pal.

Let me know what you think (unless you hate it!)


Dec 2nd 1998

>>Heretic II  <<

I want to go on record to say that in my opinion Heretic II is the best 
game to date by Raven Software!  I am very proud of this title (first 
since joining forces with Activision) because I feel we delivered a game 
with solid addictive game play in both single and multi player.  I am 
also pleased that we took the time to insure that Heretic II was a stable
 product that includes ALL of the editing tools and source needed to 
allow buyers to create with it what they wished.
     It was a tough choice for us to try 3rd person but we really wanted 
to take a risk and venture out into new territory and I think it was 
worth it.  It really helps to see all of the top-notch reviews we are 
getting for the game.  A lot of 9 out of 10's and above! We also got a 
huge complement from Scott Miller at 3d realms.Thanks Scott!  Now I 
wonder what John R. thinks of Heretic II?  John?
	Raven is really striving to push into new areas while staying 
true to our POV standards.  One of our next titles "Soldier of Fortune" 
(SOF) is looking awesome!  It is such a blast working with real world 
weapons in real world settings. Fantasy is my true love but there is 
something about using a machine gun that can't be beat.  In SOF we have 
used motion capture for ALL the enemies and created a new technology 
called "Ghoul" which allows us to mix and match different attributes to 
enemies so that they each look very different from each other.  I have 
always hated the cookie cutter feel of a horde of foes all looking like 
clones coming at you.  It is cool to see 10 different enemies attacking 
 you in all different sizes and attire.  More on SOF another day and 
talk of gore zones.

	I cannot wait to announce our third project but it should not 
be too much longer.

Compliments to Ritual on "Sin" and Valve on "Half Life" Both are Awesome 
games!!

Brian "Martek" Raffel







October 26, 1998

HERETIC II demo suggestion.

Just wanted to point out what may be obvious to most players but a lot 
seem to miss this.  Since Corvus always has the Tome of Power with him 
]he has the ability to power up his weapons at ALL times. To do this 
requires a large amount of defensive (blue) mana.  So, a good tip is to 
pick up some blue mana and hit your defense key (usually the enter key) 
and power up your weapons...I strongly suggest using it with the red rain! 

