Login: terra          			Name: Ryan N. Freebern - terraFORMA
Directory: /home/terra              	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Office: Hudson Falls NY
Last login Thu Aug 28 10:34 (CDT) on ttyp4 from Dialup043.qnsbny
No Mail.
Plan:
[Updated Thursday, August 28th, 1997 at 10:24 a.m. EST]
Hmmm... it's been over two weeks. Think I'm out of the QuakeFinger database?
Yikes...

So Quake2 levels are all going to be around 3000 brushes? Seems like most of
the X-Men levels will be hovering around that number also. Right now, ZGE is
really pushing the Quake engine to its limits, while still keeping the game
quite playable on a slower system. I'm very impressed with all the work done
so far, and I'm sure you all will be when you buy it. *WHEN* you buy it.

[Updated Wednesday, August 13th, 1997 at 10:45 a.m. EST]
Personally, I think this $25,000 Thresh challenge has to be one of the
most expensive dicksize wars ever. I think Jason was willing to lose
a couple hundred on the bet - that's not that big a deal. But $25,000
is another matter entirely. See, I'm almost certain he didn't think "Yeah,
there is no way in hell that Thresh can beat Craig." He probably thought,
"Hmm... Craig's pretty good. He might actually stand a chance against
Thresh." So he made the bet with that in mind. Since then, to hold his
image, he's raised the ante - ha, I've got a bigger dick than yours, 'cause
I can bet more.

It all seems rather stupid to me. I just hope that whoever wins wins
graciously, no insulting, bickering, etc. And I hope that some of that
$25,000, whoever wins it, comes my way for some new hardware which I
need rather desperately if I'm to continue making Quake levels.

One of the biggest challenges to creating Quake levels is exactly that, the
hardware requirements. I'm lucky enough to have a computer than can handle
it - a Gateway p120 with 32 megs RAM - but even that computer is on the low
end of Quake editing machines. If I want to go into Quake2 editing in the
future, I'm going to need something much more powerful, possibly even of the
pentium II variety. The money I'm making on the X-Men project isn't enough
to purchase a machine of that caliber, but hopefully by the time Quake2
comes out, I will be able to afford what I need.

Or I can just hope that Carmack does *something* with that strange talent he
has, and makes everything a lot less memory-intensive and time-consuming. :)

The next big thing: http://mauls.com/carbine/

- Ryan "BabelFish" Freebern
The opinions expressed above are mine only, and do not in any way reflect
the opinions of my employer, Zero Gravity Entertainment, or the terraFORMA
team. Please take all the above statements with a grain of salt.
