
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: chaos
Plan modified: Wed Jul 22 14:08:38 1998

This one's for all the .plan readers who suffer under CHAOS:

The only thing in this business that I hate more than a 
"slow-ass redneck developer" is a "loud-mouthed animator." 

Special thanks to all the people who recommended that I 
receive psychological counseling.  Your concern has been 
noted. 

I think it's funny, all the responses I have gotten about my 
plan updates.  People either "totally" agree with me and 
worship me as a hero, or they are totally offended and want 
to crucify me.  I suspect there is a silent majority as well 
that just thinks I'm making an ass out myself and making 
Ritual look bad.  There are also a few people, a very small 
minority who just laughed and thought the whole thing was 
hilarious.

People seem to like to be told when somthing is "serious" 
or something is "a joke."  That's why we have "laugh tracks" 
in our sit-coms.  In my plan I combined sarcasm with truth, 
a very volatile combination, and I didn't supply a "wink."  
People went crazy because they didn't know what to think. 

Personally, my opinions about things don't really matter.  
I hate some things, I like some things, so what?  But  it 
seems that people out there latch on or are repulsed by my 
comments so easily-- seemingly without much thought of their 
own.  Nobody stopped to consider "why" I was doing what I 
was doing, they were too busy agreeing or disagreeing with 
the content-- content which is basically irrelevant.  

I think it's funny that people would get mad about the 
rantings of someone named "CHAOS" anyway. I don't play by 
the rules.  So what?  I keep people guessing. 

Having said that, I do want to make one thing very clear:

My comments on the producers I have worked with were not 
directed at any one publisher in particular, and certainly 
not at any one person.  There were a lot of people who thought 
I was targeting Activision because I dedicated the rant to "my 
friends at Raven who suffer under Activision."  I apologize for  
the misunderstanding.  Some people at Raven may not be happy 
with Activision, but I am certainly not qualified to talk about 
their producers because I have never worked directly with any of 
them.  My rant was about my experience with producers from 
*other* companies that I have worked with directly.  

I have not had good experiences with producers and I have 
recieved A LOT of responses from people who have had similar 
or worse experiences.  But this isn't to say that there 
aren't A LOT of great producers out there.  I just haven't 
had the opportunity to work with them.  I felt that I made 
it clear that I was ranting about producers I have worked 
with, not "all" producers.  Yet there were some producers 
who I haven't worked with who were convinced that I was 
talking about them personally.  In fact they desperately want 
to believe that it is them.  Once again, they were too busy 
reacting to their outrage rather than thinking about who it 
was who was making these comments.  "CHAOS."  My opinions 
don't really matter.  Why get mad?  Think about it.   

The joke is, however, that they saw themselves reflected 
in my shit.

=)

CHAOS





