Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Nathan Albury
Email: nalbury@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 10/22/1998 01:49:42 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10-22-98

How good is the Heretic2 demo?  Well, lets just say this - it makes Pat Lipo
swe*r al*t.  ;)

Seriously, though, being on Soldier of Fortune (which is coming along quite
nicely, thank you very much), I've been a bit isolated from Heretic2.  For
a while now, I'd been under the assumption that Heretic2 would be a cool
single-player game, but I was really pretty skeptical about how it would
play in deathmatch (after all, how can 3rd person work in deathmatch, right?)
Well, after helping the H2 team test out deathmatch recently, I've come to a
conclusion I find startling - Heretic2 is, hands down, the coolest deathmatch
game I've played since Doom2 or Heretic - and it's actually giving those two
games a serious run for their money.  And that's not praise I give out
lightly.  Wow.  Great job, guys - you've really set a mark that SOF is going
to have to work hard to match...  It just hits a level of speed, power, and
intensity that I haven't seen in FPS's for a LONG time.

And in other gaming news, I got my copy of Metal Gear Solid today.  Tasty
tasty tasty.  I know what's going to be consuming my weekend :)

8-10-98

I must be a freaky-crap magnet.  I came into work yesterday, minding my own
business, and I ran into Eric Biessman, who, while talking to me, mentioned
that he loved my new poster.  This surprised me, as I didn't know I HAD a
new poster :)  So, I walked over to my cubicle, and, lo and behold,
plastered up against the wall of my cubicle was a HUGE Vanilla Ice "Cool as
Ice" movie poster.  Ack.  I am, of course, keeping the poster up (it's
lame factor is FAR higher than the mere trading card), but I've gotta ask -
why do these things always happen to ME?  Hmm....

And, as an addendum to the fat-old-naked-men-in-the-gym-locker-room issue,
I was talking to one of my roommates last night, and he announced to me that
it is "normal" to not mind being around naked men who are wandering around
and shaving and chatting and generally enjoying their fat old nudity.  He
went on to declare that me and the several people I know who are less than
fond of these portly aging exhibitionists are just strange and abnormal.
Sure buddy, you just keep looking at those gyrating, gesticulating obese
ancient creatures - for what it's worth I STILL think they warrant their
own locker room.  Of course, this is the same person who declared that
it's "normal" to like black licorice and that about 80% of the population
really likes it, so everything said above should be taken with a grain of
salt (I, of course, am not fond of the putrid black stuff that he calls
food).

Heh.

Oh yeah, and for all those people who decided it's really clever to put 99
tracks on a freaking CD and hiding one song at the end, I have only to say,
you suck.  That kind of crap totally freaks out my CD player when it's on
random play >;(  Growl.

8-7-98

Sheesh...  After coming back from lunch today, I found a small unmarked
brown package on my chair.  After shaking it a bit to ensure that it wasn't
a mail bomb of any sort (hey, you never know), I cracked it open and
discovered, much to my confusion, about 30 packs of Rock Cards, similar
to baseball cards but instead decorated with music stars, much like the
Vanilla Ice card Kenn attacked the other day.  So now I'm up to ...
(/me counts) 2 Michael Bolton cards, 7 Nelson cards, 7 Vanilla Ice cards,
7 George Michael cards, and 10 M.C. Hammer cards.  Can life get any better?
Heh...  I was a bit freaked out, though, as I had no idea where they came
from.  According to Jeremy Statz, they come from someone he knows who read
my finger the other day, so whoever you are, I say, thanks - they were
entertaining to go through.

Now I'm just worried that someone will take similar inspiration from my
"naked old men at the gym" update and I'll find someone's grandfather in
the buff sitting in my chair with about $30 of postage attached to his
flabiness...  Ick...

/me shudders...

So anyway, I think I'm heading down to GenCon this weekend to see how well
Heretic2 is recieved and help out a bit (possibly).  Should be cool - I had
alot of fun demo-ing Heretic2 at E3, so I expect this to be equally as cool,
even if I'm not actually on the project.  I can't wait 'till SOF is at a
similiar point - we've really gotten some extremely cool stuff in already...

8-3-98

What is this?  I must be famous now - I've made it in Kenn's finger two
days in a row now...  Just for the record, yeah, maybe the junk I have in
my cube is less than healthy - but I've got to do something to keep up with
Kenn's smoking :)  heh...

What is up with old people being naked and loving it?  Kenn and I go to the
gym 3 times a week (okay, well we say we go that often, anyway :)), and
without fail, the most treachorous part of the entire journey is the venture
into the men's locker room.  Now, I don't really mind the younger guys who
are changing... They all have a proper sense of "male nakedness is to be
avoided" to them...  I avert my eyes, they change quickly while not looking
at anyone, and ultimately we're all okay, if not exactly happy.  But for
whatever reason, all the fat old naked men seem to think that it is their
constitutional duty to stand around completely naked and look in the mirror,
chat with their pals, and just wander around all over the place.  Um, I didn't
pay a sizeable chunk of money to join my gym just to be subjected to THAT.
Keep your damn old man chode to yourself, thank you very much.  It's not like
I'm showing myself off to them or something...  Grr...

8-2-98

Kenn's just jealous - but who wouldn't be?  My trading cards RULE!  Heh...
Vanilla Ice is actually at the top of my little shrine, as he just out-lames
the other cards by quite a hefty factor...

And I had to put 'em up, anyway... Ever since Steve put up his American
Gladiator trading cards, I've felt terribly insecure...  But no longer!
Now with the power of Nelson and Vanilla Ice and the Hammer himself, I
shall reign supreme... or something like that, anyway :)

Um, and Soldier of Fortune is going well and stuff... heh (just had to
somehow make this work related :))

7-15-98

I should be advertising, I'm thinking.  Picture this....

[Camera on pudgy unimportant spokesperson]

"That's right - now we can give YOU long distance for only 10 cents a
minute - any time during the day.  Who knew?"

[Camera pans to tired looking woman living in public housing...]

"That's great!  That means I can talk to my incarcerated husband from
now until the moment I die for only $2,628,000, assuming I don't die
first from my crack habit!  Now if only the phone were actually hooked
up..."

Now THAT'S how you sell long distance...

7-2-98

Sound stuff progresses, and is mighty tasty :)  Can't really say more
than that, though...  But from working on it, it's made me realizes the
real advances that wow people aren't really the ones that everyone's
expecting - being able to come up with new abstract concepts of how to
improve things seems to be quite underrated right now :/  Thinking
sideways...

I've got to agree with Chaos over at Ritual about the entire duration of
work thing - it really seems like there's quite a bit of "We're totally
cool here where I work because we like what we do so much that we're
willing to kill ourselves doing it..." syndrome... why is this a good
thing?  Hmmm...

Anyway...

6-23-98

Working on sound stuff right now - no telling if we'll be able to get it
up to speed in the timeframe we're looking at, but if so, it should be
mighty, mighty cool.  I won't say more than that right now, but I'm
pretty hopeful...  And on that subject, is it just me or is sound one
area of video and computer gaming that has been stagnating of late?  I
mean, with the exception of Unreal, it seems like everyone for the past
few years has been pretty content to just smash some very pretty redbook
CD audio onto a disc and call it a day... Now, granted, quite a few of
these tracks are very cool and all... but still, half the time they don't
even fit the game they're supposedly enhancing...

And on a completely unrelated sidenote, people should check out the
the new raven web page at www.ravensoft.com.  I'm quite pleased with my
new picture there in the bios's- it's a piece of my Metal Gear Solid
picture from E3.  I was trying to look like a badass in the picture (if
you saw the whole picture you'd also see I'm holding a gun and stuff), but
Gummelt seems to think I look more like a bully from an 80's teen flick...
Hey, that's cool with me :)  I've never been a bully before.

Well, back to the sound stuff.

Oh yeah, and people should also look at Gummelt's new pic as well - he
looks like he's straight out of a porn flick, which is entirely possible...

6-9-98

'nodder random update for the day... : Since everyone else at Raven is
griping today, I figured I'd throw out my additional two cents... (well,
actually, it's just Kenn and Pat, but close enough :))...
Of course, my gripes have nothing to do with E3 or the press, but that's
neither here nor there :)  So, without ado...

1)  A very nice feature about my car CD player is that it will suspend
itself if I turn my car off and then start up where I left off when I start
the car again...  What I want to know is WHY in the world hasn't Nintendo
added something like that to the Gameboy?  I mean, just a simple little
suspend button on the side of the thing would make a world of difference...
Hmph.....

2) Who was the genius who decided that my car needs to beep incessantly when
I put the keys in without putting my seatbelt on, but didn't think I needed to know
when I leave my car lights on and get out of the car?  I killed my battery
twice this past year because of that oversight, but, like a good little boy,
I without fail buckle my seat belt regardless of what noise my car decides
to blare at me... Grr....

Hmmmm.... On reflection, those seem like rather petty complaints - but
hopefully they're at least vaguely amusing to the 3 of you who even bother
to read my .plan update :)

Game of the Day: Castlevania 2 for the Gameboy - very cool game, nice and
solid, and REALLY cool music considering it's a gameboy...  Konami always
did know how to crank out some really cool chip music from those little
systems...  Plus it's got some pretty inventive bosses.  I've quite pleased
with it on the whole...

6-4-98

Random Update for the day... : I got a Gameboy Pocket today and a bunch of
used games.  Extremely cool - probably the best purchase I've made in quite
some time.  Too bad all of Squaresoft's gameboy games still cost $30 a piece
USED... Sheesh... how's that for staying power?  Won't stop me from getting
them, of course, but I can complain, right? :)



5-26-98

Woo hoo!!!  Leaving for E3 tommorrow, where I can see my loyal fan.  ;)  Heh.
Just kidding.  Should be interesting though - for those of you curious as to
who I am after my monthly .plan updates, I'll be there in the flesh, helping
to show off Heretic2 (even though I'm really on Soldier of Fortune) and in
general hanging out and checking out cool stuff from other games for me to ...
um, get "inspiration" from, so to speak :)  Heheheheh...  I wonder how many
post Unreal games are going to have lensflares around their lights - methinks
quite a few...  It'll be good to get back to Atlanta, too, as that's where
I'm natively from.  On the whole, looking forward to it, although I'm the
only guy from Raven who doesn't get to take a limo ride out to Milwaukee for
the flight out - because of some flight anomolies, it looks like I'll be taking
the bus at 6 in the morning :(  Bleah...  Oh well, you can't win 'em all, I
guess...

Of course, my true plan at E3 is for me to pretend I'm Kenn Hoekstra - that
way I get an instant army of loyal fans... :)

4-3-98

Hmmm.... The guys from id didn't invite me down to drag race :(  That's too bad.
I'm sure my Honda Civic would have posted some impressive numbers :)

3-31-98

Hexenworld stuff's going quite well.  I've gotten pretty close to finishing up
the demoness's attacks, optimization wise, so she should be nice and cozy for
the next release - get ready to see her running around bringing the smack down
in a city near you :)  Woo hoo.

I just picked up a copy of Dead or Alive for the Playstation.  It got good
reviews, with alot of comparisons to Virtua Fighter, a series I've always liked
(though not as much as Street Fighter).  Anyway, while reading through the
instruction manual, I noticed there was a "Bouncing Breast (y/n)" option in the
menus.  This of course gave me quite a laugh.  "Why would you need something
that ludicrous", thought I.  Well, I loaded up the game and I found out why.
The female characters in the game have chests that heave all over the place like
crazy.  It's quite uncomfortable to watch.  Maybe they should have changed the
option to "Sports Bra (y/n)"...  It's a crazy world we live in.  Needless to say,
I'll probably make use of the option to entertain people but I'm not really going
to have them jiggle when I seriously play.  It's a shame too - it feels like a
very well thought out, tightly designed fighter...


3-20-98

I just read Scott Miller's .plan, and I've got to say he's right on the money.
I wasn't really old enough to be around in the hey day of old arcade games,
(what can I say, I'm still a kid), but I've certainly been to enough arcades to
know that almost all games these days are just there to milk your money.  On a
very related note, I recall that many game reviewers complained loudly and
frequently when Dark Forces was released without any sort of in-level saving.
Now, I'd agree that some checkpoints should have been implemented in DF, as many
of the levels were absolutely HUGE and playing through in one sitting could
turn into quite a lengthy task BUT I actually appreciated the lack of in-level
saves.  In my experience, the ability to save anywhere at any point in first
person shooters has had much the same effect that arcade continuing has had; I
know I've played several first person shooters where you could tell the designers
EXPECTED you to save often while playing, and that's just crap.  Not to mention
that saving as you go takes almost all the edge off of playing a game.  I know
some people will respond with the age-old "you don't like the saving, don't use
it", but that's not really an option when a game is designed with you needing to
use it in mind....

3-19-98

Quick question for anyone who's played both Quake deathmatch and Hexen2 deathmatch,
and particularly for anyone who's played the HexenWorld Alpha: should the player
speed be toned down to be closer to that of Quake?  Right now it's quite a bit
faster.  I've heard quite a few people mention this as a cause of frustration,
so I'd be curious to hear if anyone DOESN'T want the running speeds altered.  If
you don'twant it altered, reasons would be excellent :)  Thanks...

3-13-98

HWorld update - Tweaked the damages on a couple of weapons for both the crusader
and the paladin.  The paladin still has the final unoptimized weapon, that being
the powered up axe.  Hmph.  I'm still trying to find a way to handle it that I
like.  Grr.  I also changed the crusader's glyph - it now chases the user around
and explodes if it hits anyone.  I'm hoping it will be a more viable item than
the original crusader glyph, the time bomb.  That item was nearly impossible to
use effectively, especially compared to some of the other glyphs.  I'm also trying
to decide how to make the cube of farce useful (yes, that typo was intentional).
I've got a couple ideas, so it's just going to be a matter of trying them out.
Playbalancing is a tricky task, but an ultimately satisfying one, IMHO.  And, after
playing for a while last night, I've got to say, Kenn's new deathmatch map is quite
cool.  Which reminds me of another change recently added - the respawn rates of
things are now based on the number of players currently in a level.  The more players,
the faster items and weapons respawn.  I guess we'll just have to see how it works.

As much as I enjoy working at Raven, I've got to say, it would certainly be a better
place to work if we had our own personal chefs and people who would give us
feet massages.  Hmm...  One can always hope ;)  I'd also like for someone to go
through my CD collection and pick out exactly what I want to listen to for the day
based on my mood and stuff.  Heh....

3-12-98

HexenWorld info for the day - fixed a few bugs relating to the sunstaff in powered
up mode.  I like the new Powered Up Sunstaff.  It feels nice and powerful, IMHO.
Changed the firing sound stuff to something cheaper, networking wise.  Every
little bit helps.  I also added a new server variable - tomemode.  When set to 0,
the game runs as it always has.  When set to 1, players can always toggle between
the tomed version of a weapon and back by pressing the number key corresponding
to the weapon (e.g. pressing 1 for the crusader will enable and disable the
throwing hammer).  This gives the game more of an alternate firing mode feel ...
but I'm not particularly crazy about the concept of it.  tomemode 2 falls somewhere
between; if you have a weapon and run over a tome of power, you can from that point
on use the tome of power version of it (by pressing it's corresponding number key).
This effect will last until you die.  I've got annother, more drastic, tome of
power mode I'd like to add, but it's going to take a bit more work.  I also added
a setlevel server variable that disables level advancement of characters.  So, if
setlevel is set to 8, all characters will be level 8, no matter what happens.
Again, these options are really just there for anyone interested in changing the
flow and pacing of the game by a bit.

I'm really looking forward to Metal Gear Solid.  Konami needs to hurry up and release
it ;)  That's right, simply because I want it.  Heh.  I loved the original (back in
the day), so I'm hoping it will be cool.  I recently played all the way through the
Gameboy Legend of Zelda.  It's amazing how little hardware an incredible game needs...
Excellent, excellent game.  I wish more games like it were made :(

If I actually did interesting stuff in my life, I'd mention it right now, but I'm
just a simple computer programming geek, so I'm afraid that's not the case ;)  Heh.
I may be a geek, but at least I'm not a geek in denial ;)

3-11-98

(part2)
A few updates to my little game below.  The response has been quite good to it,
particularly here around the office.  Still, I think a few changes are in order...
First, no medical terms, overly scientific terms, and no proper names (this
includes location names).  Second, I'm also interested in who can come up with
the SHORTEST word using those letters.  I'm also looking for the most interesting
and evocative word (which is highly subjective, but I don't care).  For anyone
interested, the longest word so far has been "hypergeometrically", from Dan Kramer,
here at Raven.  If you don't know what I'm talking about, read my earlier update
from today...

Oh, and I finally got a trash can for my cube the other day.  It was a thrilling
experience, and one I'm not likely to soon forget ;)

(part1)

Hexen2World optimizations are going well.  Most of the weapons for the
paladin and the crusader (my two classes to optimize) are fairly under control,
lagwise.  At this point I'm actually becoming more interested in adding in
options and balancing the weapons so that Hexen2World is more enjoyable to
play and interesting.  Hopefully most of you will be pleased with the changes-
quite of a few of them were made based on suggestions from people on message
boards.  As far as weapons are concerned, the primary changes have been
minimizing the number of weapons that can kill you with one hit, trying to tone
down the homing weapons, and trying to make weapons that were very random
much less so.  Most of this has been in an effort to make the game feel
tighter.  I've also added in a few server options (similar to Quake's
deathmatch 2); things that don't really constitute mods outright but instead
easily allow the person who's running the server to customize various aspects
of the game.  I'll probably mention a few of them in a bit - I'd like to hear
people's reactions to them.

On a completely unrelated note, I, being an utter geek :), have a particular
game I like to play when I'm driving.  Basically, I look at a car license
plate, take the first half of it (the part with the three letters), and try
to think of the longest word I can that uses those letters in that order -
they don't have to be consecutive, just in that order.  So, for example,
if my car's license plate has the letters "SMG" as the three letters, "smog" is
a valid word (though not a very good one), but "massage" wouldn't be.  Also,
proper name and places don't count, according to my current rules :)  Anyway,
the point of all of this is, today, while driving back from lunch, Mike
Gummelt came up with the word "Charlatan" for the license plate "HTA".  If
anyone can come up with a better word, I'd be really interested in hearing
from you at nalbury@mail.ravensoft.com.  I imagine someone could write a
quick search program that would run through dictionaries and find the best
possible word for this game, but that does rather ruin the point.  Yeah,
it's a pretty geeky game.  I don't care :)  Good luck.

And finally, hi Jill.  Look, you're famous now, sort of :) (Don't ask)


3-6-98

Er, here's my little story chunk for the moment.  Woo.

Oh yeah.  Check Eric Turman for the next incredible installment of
Fade Away...

*********************************************************************
Fade Away - Part XII (By Nathan Albury, Programmer)

"Pain is the name of the game baby..." was the last
thing I heard before I was voilently launched into unconciousness.
That accompanied by the horrible sound of a woman screaming.

                        * * * * *

I awoke sometime later, I'm not certain how long, with a terrible pulsing
in my head.  The world swam for a few moments, and I grit my teeth in
pain.  After a short time, the pain began to subside, and I began to get
my bearings.

As best as I could tell, I was stuck in a cell of some sort.  Tongues of
light fell through the barred window of the door to the small room.  I got
up nervously and shook the door, but it was no use.  Crying out in frustrated
anguish made worse because I had no idea what was going on, I slumped down
to the floor.

"You give up too easily", a silibant voice echoed through my mind.

I turned my head up sharply.  "Just what I needed," I retorted to no one
in particular.  "Now, not only am I locked in a cell in a world that's been
turned upside down, my mind is going.  How could this day get any better?"

"Your self-pity is not particularly helpful.  Are you interested in getting
out of here or will you be content if you can manage to make me feel sorry
for you?"

The problem with voices that you hear in your mind is that there really isn't
any way to make them go away if they start to get on your nerves.

"Exactly how can you help me get out of here?  And who are you for that
matter?  I didn't exactly invite you inside my head, you know."

"Oh, but you did.  You did the moment you..."

The voice's comments were cut short as the light in the hallway outside of my
cell began to grow brighter and brighter, as though the sun itself were
approaching the cell.  A loud humming began to fill the air, reverberating
through out myself and everything around me, and within moments, the stones
of the room began to shake and dance.  It was at that moment that....

*********************************************************************

1-23-98
Does anyone out there know, exactly, the format of Fasttracker2's .XI format?
After a bit of searching I've discovered that I haven't discovered anything
at all :(  I'm quite surprised at how much trouble I'm having finding the
freaking thing (grrr....).

1-12-98

I just got a copy of micromachines for the Sony Playstation.  For anyone
interested in a REALLY great party-style game, this game is a must have.  It's
not really a hardcore racing game so much as a battle.  Very fun, highly
recommended - and I usually don't get into racing games.
