Name: Nathan Albury
Email: nalbury@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1-12-99

Ice on the inside of a car window has easily got to be one of the most annoying
things on the face of the planet.  Whoever invented this stuff needs to be
shot - or at least he should have the decency to come scrape my windows off.
My scraper refuses to get it off ;(

On the plus side, I was browsing around www.ncsx.com for some Saturn games,
and I came across the coolest game description EVER written.  Period.  It's for
a Japanese game called Mahjong Goku Tenjiku - they claim it is "Serious mahjong
action with monkey god".  Yes!!!  It's too bad they're sold out and it's for
a system I don't own, or I'd be all over that title...  It will, however,
provide stiff competition for our upcoming title, Giku Datsun Noga Hadoken,
which I describe as "intense poker drama with Llama Deity and his wife."  Yum.

12-9-98

Thanks to everyone who answered my previous querey about AI in games - lots
of really well thought out replies... I only wish I had time to answer them
all, but there were really quite a few of them :/  I'll probably write up
what people said at some point and then my response, as it has helped shape
my opinions a bit more.

However, right now I have a something else of far more importance to say.
What do you suppose (and this is all purely hypothetical, of course)
commercials for marijuana would be like?  I mean, we all know the stereotypes
for beer commercials (large breasted women dancing around in skimpy clothing
in the middle of the frozen tundras)...  Hmm...  Something to think about.

12-3-98

I, like many of you out there in magic .plan reading land, have been following
lots of the reviews of the vast deluge of games coming out for Christmas, and
it's gotten me to thinking a bit.  Almost every review I've read seems to
focus quite a fair portion of the review on AI, as that seems to be the huge
buzzword of the year.  And that makes me curious.

What's up with the Holy Grail-like quest for amazing AI?  And what does that
mean, too?  I mean, I can understand that there are certain key events that
enemies can do that will instantly break your immersion and remind you that
you're playing a game (enemies bumping into walls, for example, or enemies
standing around while you repeatedly shoot their friends, or even while you
shoot them for that matter).  But I'm getting the impression from some reviewers,
and from some general message boards out there as well, that there are people
out there that will not be happy until games are released where it is
physically impossible to kill anyone.  The enemies will be so smart that
they'll realize they have far less health than the player character and
they'll actually leave the level before you even spawn :)

I guess my point is, in the huge clamor for godlike AI, I'm afraid that the
entire concept of fun is being relegated to a secondary position, and that
kind of makes me mad.  Coupled with the general trend of having fewer,
tougher enemies, this is really rather diminishing my enjoyment of FPSs :/

Is everyone's ultimate dream to enter a game and fight 2 reaper bots for 2 and
a half hours before finally managing to best them by a Herculean effort of
will and mental fortitude that grants automatic MENSA membership?  Am I just
wrong or in the severe minority in thinking that that wouldn't be terribly
interesting?

Although I can certainly appreciate alot of recently released game's AIs on a
purely "Wow that must've been tricky to program" level, to be perfectly honest
I don't think I can say I've really ENJOYED how the AI interacted with the
combat mechanics of these games anywhere near as much as I did the original
DOOM and Heretic...  and to be honest (and this certainly isn't intended as
any particular slight to the authors of the AI for both of those games), the
creatures in those games were about as intelligent as a piece of plywood.  I
believe the basic formula was "Move towards the player while sliding left and
right.  Also, shoot some."  And it worked :)  Now, obviously, the number of
enemies that could be fought at one time had a huge impact on making this work...
but I still pity that I haven't felt the same level of adreniline and encountered
as cool of battles recently as I did in so many of the levels of Doom and
Memento Mori.  I seem to recall one particular battle, I believe it was
in the basement of level 10 of Memento Mori, against 4 Mancubus's (who were,
I must say, quite a bit less than clever), that I had to fight 10 times as
my game was saved with 27 percent health.  It just had a type of intensity
that I haven't been able to match.  Sigh...

Note that I do absolutely no work on Soldier of Fortune's AI, so if you think
I'm full of crap and disagree with me more than you've ever disagreed with
any one before...  realize that I have no AI influence :)  For all I know
the enemies in SOF could very well challenge you to a game of chess and make
you earn that MENSA membership... :)

Am I totally wrong here?  I'd love to here any thoughts <a href="mailto:nalbury@mail.ravensoft.com">here</a>





11-24-98

Mmmm.... Feels like Christmas.  Software Etc. will theoretically have my copy
of Zelda64 today.  Yum.  If they don't, I'm afraid I will have to maim,
torture, and kill them all (particularly that FOB manager) ;)

This actually kind of reminds me of another Thanksgiving about 4 years ago...
Final Fantasy 3 had just come out and, at the same time, my girlfriend at the
time was getting her wisdom teeth removed, which is apparently a very painful
process that generally warrants attention and care from those who love you -
needless to say, she was more than a little irate when I failed to call or
visit her at all during the entire Thanksgiving break.  Ooops - I really did
mean to call or visit...  but come on, we're talking about Final Fantasy 3
here!  ;)  Sadly she held that against me for several years after that :/

Composer of the day:  Sergei Rachmaninoff - Really great Romantic composer...
And he doesn't even have big hair or sing falsetto!  Am I even allowed to
work at Raven and like this guy at the same time?  ;)

10-22-98

How good is the Heretic2 demo?  Well, lets just say this - it makes Pat Lipo
swe*r al*t.  ;)

Seriously, though, being on Soldier of Fortune (which is coming along quite
nicely, thank you very much), I've been a bit isolated from Heretic2.  For
a while now, I'd been under the assumption that Heretic2 would be a cool
single-player game, but I was really pretty skeptical about how it would
play in deathmatch (after all, how can 3rd person work in deathmatch, right?)
Well, after helping the H2 team test out deathmatch recently, I've come to a
conclusion I find startling - Heretic2 is, hands down, the coolest deathmatch
game I've played since Doom2 or Heretic - and it's actually giving those two
games a serious run for their money.  And that's not praise I give out
lightly.  Wow.  Great job, guys - you've really set a mark that SOF is going
to have to work hard to match...  It just hits a level of speed, power, and
intensity that I haven't seen in FPS's for a LONG time.

And in other gaming news, I got my copy of Metal Gear Solid today.  Tasty
tasty tasty.  I know what's going to be consuming my weekend :)

8-10-98

I must be a freaky-crap magnet.  I came into work yesterday, minding my own
business, and I ran into Eric Biessman, who, while talking to me, mentioned
that he loved my new poster.  This surprised me, as I didn't know I HAD a
new poster :)  So, I walked over to my cubicle, and, lo and behold,
plastered up against the wall of my cubicle was a HUGE Vanilla Ice "Cool as
Ice" movie poster.  Ack.  I am, of course, keeping the poster up (it's
lame factor is FAR higher than the mere trading card), but I've gotta ask -
why do these things always happen to ME?  Hmm....

And, as an addendum to the fat-old-naked-men-in-the-gym-locker-room issue,
I was talking to one of my roommates last night, and he announced to me that
it is "normal" to not mind being around naked men who are wandering around
and shaving and chatting and generally enjoying their fat old nudity.  He
went on to declare that me and the several people I know who are less than
fond of these portly aging exhibitionists are just strange and abnormal.
Sure buddy, you just keep looking at those gyrating, gesticulating obese
ancient creatures - for what it's worth I STILL think they warrant their
own locker room.  Of course, this is the same person who declared that
it's "normal" to like black licorice and that about 80% of the population
really likes it, so everything said above should be taken with a grain of
salt (I, of course, am not fond of the putrid black stuff that he calls
food).

Heh.

Oh yeah, and for all those people who decided it's really clever to put 99
tracks on a freaking CD and hiding one song at the end, I have only to say,
you suck.  That kind of crap totally freaks out my CD player when it's on
random play >;(  Growl.

8-7-98

Sheesh...  After coming back from lunch today, I found a small unmarked
brown package on my chair.  After shaking it a bit to ensure that it wasn't
a mail bomb of any sort (hey, you never know), I cracked it open and
discovered, much to my confusion, about 30 packs of Rock Cards, similar
to baseball cards but instead decorated with music stars, much like the
Vanilla Ice card Kenn attacked the other day.  So now I'm up to ...
(/me counts) 2 Michael Bolton cards, 7 Nelson cards, 7 Vanilla Ice cards,
7 George Michael cards, and 10 M.C. Hammer cards.  Can life get any better?
Heh...  I was a bit freaked out, though, as I had no idea where they came
from.  According to Jeremy Statz, they come from someone he knows who read
my finger the other day, so whoever you are, I say, thanks - they were
entertaining to go through.

Now I'm just worried that someone will take similar inspiration from my
"naked old men at the gym" update and I'll find someone's grandfather in
the buff sitting in my chair with about $30 of postage attached to his
flabiness...  Ick...

/me shudders...

So anyway, I think I'm heading down to GenCon this weekend to see how well
Heretic2 is recieved and help out a bit (possibly).  Should be cool - I had
alot of fun demo-ing Heretic2 at E3, so I expect this to be equally as cool,
even if I'm not actually on the project.  I can't wait 'till SOF is at a
similiar point - we've really gotten some extremely cool stuff in already...

8-3-98

What is this?  I must be famous now - I've made it in Kenn's finger two
days in a row now...  Just for the record, yeah, maybe the junk I have in
my cube is less than healthy - but I've got to do something to keep up with
Kenn's smoking :)  heh...

What is up with old people being naked and loving it?  Kenn and I go to the
gym 3 times a week (okay, well we say we go that often, anyway :)), and
without fail, the most treachorous part of the entire journey is the venture
into the men's locker room.  Now, I don't really mind the younger guys who
are changing... They all have a proper sense of "male nakedness is to be
avoided" to them...  I avert my eyes, they change quickly while not looking
at anyone, and ultimately we're all okay, if not exactly happy.  But for
whatever reason, all the fat old naked men seem to think that it is their
constitutional duty to stand around completely naked and look in the mirror,
chat with their pals, and just wander around all over the place.  Um, I didn't
pay a sizeable chunk of money to join my gym just to be subjected to THAT.
Keep your damn old man chode to yourself, thank you very much.  It's not like
I'm showing myself off to them or something...  Grr...

8-2-98

Kenn's just jealous - but who wouldn't be?  My trading cards RULE!  Heh...
Vanilla Ice is actually at the top of my little shrine, as he just out-lames
the other cards by quite a hefty factor...

And I had to put 'em up, anyway... Ever since Steve put up his American
Gladiator trading cards, I've felt terribly insecure...  But no longer!
Now with the power of Nelson and Vanilla Ice and the Hammer himself, I
shall reign supreme... or something like that, anyway :)

Um, and Soldier of Fortune is going well and stuff... heh (just had to
somehow make this work related :))