
Name: Nathan Albury
Email: nalbury@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10-31-99

AAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!

AAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!
AAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!

I don't want much in life, I really don't.  I mean, I can honestly do without
a huge opulent house, political power holds no interest to me, and to me
a car is simply an ends to a mean.  I'm not even all that interested in world
peace - that seems like a lot of work in and of itself.

So am I asking for too much when I say that all I'd like is an OS that will
leave me the hell alone while I'm trying to use it?  It's really not that
complicated when you get right down to it - if I'm reading my web browser,
and I open up another program and return to my web broswer...  I don't need
the other program to maximize itself, shouting "Hey, I've loaded!" at a random
interval.  If I've opened my web browser and I'm in the middle of typing a URL,
I'm really not interested in having my browser helpful overwrite my typing with
my default homepage.  When I'm compiling, and I've hit escape to make the output
window go away, would it be so difficult to make it stay away until I'm interested
in seeing it again?

Hmph...

I'd talk about the status of Soldier of Fortune, but I'm likely to be assaulted
by random Microsoft products begging for attention before I can finish a
cohesive paragraph.

6-18-99

Soldier is going very well - my new effects system is so cool I get a special
feeling every time I write a line of code using it, and our ai is actually
doing some things that surprise me, even though it's using code I wrote ;)
Pretty cool.  But that's not why I'm updating my finger.

Instead, I'm just going to use my tiny little soapbox here to list some
hardware I'd like to see, just because I can.  So there.

1)  I really need some sort of treadmill that works with Everquest somehow.
So if, for example, my level 10 Bard needed to travel to Freeport from Kelethin
to get his new bard song for the level (grr...), I would get a very nice little
workout running through Butcherblock.  It'd be great!  The two worst things
about going to the gym for me are the inconvience of going there and the
boredom of having nothing for my mind to concentrate on while I use the
machines (well, and the infamous fat old naked men who like to chat in the
buff, but that's another subject)  If I had this fabled treadmill, it would
be convenient, I'd have something to do while I was using it, and it's unlikely
that any naked men would show up.  I'm serious!  This would be great!  Well,
until I got tired and my party left me because I was too slow, anyway...

2 and 3)  These two kind of go together.  I'd really like some sort of audio
card deal for my system that could take spoken word from me in a microphone
and turn it into a text string with a bunch of imbedded information about
inflections, stresses, and what not - basically a nice way to encode what I've
said into it's basic communicative information (and be nice and really small)...
THEN I'd need another card (and everyone else would need this too) that could
take this string of text and regurgitate it into voice again, using all the
embedded bits to avoid (hopefully) that common monotone flat computer voice
that shows up in stuff.  BUT here's the best part - there should be like 1000
different preset voice styles (or something like that) that I can pick from,
sort of like a skin for Quake, so that when my voice gets rebuilt, it comes
back as some gruff marine, or a Zerg Commander, or, just for example, a Wood
Elf Bard.  That'd be nifty.

Some one needs to hurry up and get this stuff made for me ;)
