
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: stocks
Plan modified: Mon Feb 05 11:52:22 2001

************************************************************************
* NOTE:  Any views expressed here do not reflect the official position 
 of Ritual Entertainment.*  
************************************************************************

2/5/01

"I'm Calling Out Names"

Mr. Reinhart over at 3D Realms has decided to comment on our very own Levelord's new monthly tradition of drinking and hanging out with the local game development community out here in Dallas.  

"And now I gotta cut ya"

Last time I looked, guys in the same profession (no matter what profession) hang out with each other and swap stories (Police do it all the time).  I think it's part of human nature.  What's wrong Mr. Reinhart? Did you feel left out? Or are you one of those smarty-programmers that can't hang out with us "lowly" Level Designers and Artists.  Wait, Jim Dose from the almighty Id showed up. So all programmers aren't like that.  You Unreal Tournament dudes a little too good for us Quake powered developers?  Or is it that you guys are so late on your project that you can't afford to spend a few hours hanging out with your peers?  Well if hanging out with the local game community is too high and mighty than I hope to not see you at GDC, or E3 for that matter.  Because the last time I went to one of those shows I (and so many other developers, publishers, etc) partied till the sun came up.      

Nothing wrong with some good ole' Masochistic fun. ;)

Chris  


2/1/01


Sega is finally throwing in the towel in the hardware biz.  Not hard to understand why.  It just proves that you have to be successful on both sides of the Pacific in order to stay in the console hardware biz.  

Let's all pour out a little liqour for the DC.  :)


//I haven't had a good night's sleep for over two weeks so I have lost track of the date

Heartbroken - Suffering from or exhibiting overwhelming sorrow, grief, or disappointment. (Dictionary.com)

For I am heartbroken right now...........................................


01/24/01

Well dudes I preordered the almighty Gameboy Advance the other day.  I haven't imported a system since the Super Famicom (Japanese SNES).  It will come with Mario Advance as a packaged deal for 200 bucks! If anybody wants to preorder one go to www.buyrite1.com for the info.

Well, it looks like Sega will start developing for the GBA and PS2 after all. Smart move on them, it's really time to hang up the hardware division and concentrate on making good games.  It's sad to see them go though, I was never a big fan of Sega's hardware systems of the past but I thought the DC was their true successor to the Genesis.  Sega also provided me with hours and hours of healthy debates between old friends of mine.  I, of course, was always a Nintendo fan and I would argue till the wee hours of the morning with my best friend Scott about which company (read system) was better. 

I am glad they caught the remaining Texas fugitives, it's quite amazing they got as far as they did though.  But it was only time before they were captured. 

Chris


01/23/01

I was watching the Today show this morning (I must say every Katie I have seen is pretty HOT!!!!!) Anyways I would like to comment on the recent raping of our natural environment.  What fucking idiot decides to maneuvar his big ass oil tanker into shallow waters near the Galapagos Islands? With technology as good as it is today one would think these situations can be avoided.  Now the tanker is spilling its guts thus causing a major ecological disaster.  The Galapagos is one the Earth's last remaining treasures and it is now being threatened by a man-made disaster.  We as a species do not deserve this planet.  

As we continue to fill the air with pollutants, spill oil in the seas, chop major forests down for lumber, and kill precious animals for their parts, the Earth will fight back.  It has already started.  Hurricanes will strengthen, winters will be colder, summers hotter, and new diseases will pop up.  These are Earth's defense mechanisms to fight off the plague (us) that has infested it.  


This will cause ramifications yet unheard of and all I can say is that we as a species deserve to get whatever comes to us.  

Chris 


01/19/01

Maybe Imagine fucked up after all...........

IGNCube insists that the GameCube will be released this year.  I hope they are right as I would absolutely love to play a new Nintendo system before the year is up.  If Nintendo releases both the Gameboy Advance and GameCube the same year I will be shocked. Their past track record for releasing hardware on time is horrendous but maybe they will actually keep their word. 

E3 is going to be huge this year, Sony will have all their second generation software, Microsoft will have XBox, Nintendo will have 'Cube and GBA, and Sega will be going out on a high note.  

Speaking of Sega it's incredibly upsetting that holiday sales weren't better than they were.  Sega had the best software lineup of any publisher and yet the games still sold like shit.  Are gamers that jaded these days?  Do gamers hate playing fun, inexpensive games.  Hell, Test Drive Le Mans (a 30 dollar game) is probably one of the best driving games ever and it has sold like shit.  Amazing.  There are so many good games out right now for the DC that it's sick.  Games that push the creativity envelope.  Even the hardware is cheap and still the DC is just not selling. 

It's a damn shame.
 
  

01/18/01

Have you all heard of Nintendo's lawsuit against Imagine Media for their Unauthorized Pokemon Training Guide?  Apparently Nintendo is pissed off that Imagine Media took screenshots from the game and used them in the guide.  As many of you know I am a huge fan of Nintendo and the products they release but I have to say suing a company that provides valuable info and news regarding Nintendo products is just plain crazy.  It's the "bite the hand that feeds you syndrome".  Imagine Media has since stated they will no longer cover Nintendo since they certainly don't want to be sued again for any stories that may ruffle Nintendo's feathers.  

I agree 100 percent with their actions.  I would certainly feel betrayed if a company I repected very much sued me for trying to help gamers.  The simple fact is Nintendo is suing them because publishing an unauthorized guide COULD cut into sales of the Authorized version.  Greed is a powerful sin.  



01/16/01

yea, it's raining!!!!



01/15/01

I am now on week 2 of the "Great American Workout".  I must say I have started to feel my energy, stamina, and strength improve.  Yes, there are only slight noticeable differences but differences nonetheless. 

I am interested in attending some raves around the Dallas area, if anybody knows of any please drop me a email with the 411.  I went to a few raves in the LA area and I had a great time then so I figured I would start going again out here.  

Has anybody ordered the Broadband Adapter from Sega?  I have heard some good things about it from various websites but does anybody have any "hands-on" experience with it?  

What does everybody think of the new Mario Advance game for the GBA?  It seems Nintendo decided to port over Super Mario 2.  Why they made that choice is beyond me.  I personally thought SM2 was the weakest Mario game out of the bunch (Figures as it wasn't really a Mario game in Japan nor was it made my Shigeru Myamoto).  

Going back on the Dreamcast subject........ I have heard some good things and bad things concerning the release of Phantasy Star Online.  I have heard it's a hell of a lot of fun but that the Japanese version crashes all the time and each time it does the player loses all his inventory.  I sincerely hope they fix those crashes for the American release.  I would be pretty pissed off if I spent hours upon hours collecting gear only to lose it by some random fucked up crash.

I want to say a hearty "HELLO" to all the guys at the local EBX here in Dallas, TX.  Hey dudes where is my PS2????

Well back to the dungeon...... till next time......

Be safe and have fun!

Chris

01/12/01

I would like to thank Jason Alejandre over at Novalogic for sending me an article written by Jason Bews and Kevin Parrish (but I don't know who those two are or from what website they came from).

Basically the article brought up some points about the DC chip (that Sega will be inserting into boards that will allow PC users the ability to play DC games).  It speculated that Microsoft could easily put that chip into the XBox and the Xbox could play all DC games right out of the box.  It was a very interesting article and it brought some very valid points.  For instance, why does the XBox controller look almost identical to the DC's (it even has two slots in the back for memory cards and what not)?  I mean shit the buttons are even the same color and their is also two analog triggers underneath.  This sounds very suspicious.  If it's true then MS has a ace up their collective sleeves.  We shall see.

Chris





01/11/01

Have you all seen the recent pics of some of the upcoming GameBoy Advance games?  I must say I am impressed with the GBA's capabilities.  I think Nintendo hit the proverbial nail on the head with the original GB.  That little thing has outlasted all consoles.  Now with a 32-bit version slated for release later this year I would say the sky's the limit for them.  

Think about all the old SNES games that can be ported over........ I would love a chance to replay Actraiser, Super Contra, Super Castlevania, Super Mario World, Zelda: A Link to the Past, etc....

But think about all the new games that various companies will make....... nothings wrong with going back to some old school gaming and I for one am looking forward to all the side-scrollers, RPGs, and racing games that will come out.

Nintendo will clean up when they release the GBA.  In fact I am predicting it will be the next holiday season's must-have toy.  

Chris


01/09/01

Today I would like to touch upon some thoughts about the Gamecube and why I think it could potentially be the next console leader.

One thing everybody understands is that Nintendo knows games.  They are on the same level as Sega's multitude of teams and maybe ahead of them too.  But here is a scenario that could easily play out and if it does you can bet both MS and Sony will be shitting bricks.  Here is the scenario:

With the impending console wars and Sega's recent financial troubles Sega has decided to exit the hardware market (a very real possibility) and start concentrating on software for various platforms (including cell phones, PDA's and other consoles).  They have a choice between Microsoft, Sony, or Nintendo.  

They won't choose Sony because there development teams are more familiar with RAM intensive machines (arcades, DC, etc). Also there is a deep-seeded hatred within the halls of Sega of Japan for Sony Corp.

They won't go for MS because while MS helped provide CE for DC, I don't think Sega thinks that MS has a chance in the console market.  MS has never done home electronics before (I don't count WebTV) and they have no experience whatsoever in the console market.  Plus the price point of the Xbox will be way too high for it to reach mass market potential (which Sega is clearly aiming for given there recent announcements and strategies). Sega is looking to make money and make it fast so XBox isn't a viable option.

Sega instead chooses to start a working relationship with Nintendo of Japan.  They announce that Sonic and other various franchises will appear on the GameBoy Advance.  It is a well known fact that Nintendo owns the handheld market worldwide and that isn't about the change soon.  It is also known that their is real money to be made and Sega knows this as well.  Remember they know handheld games, Game Gear was Nintendo's only real competitor and it was a decent system with some decent games. 

Now this starts a major swing in the right direction for Nintendo. All the loyal Sega fans will move onto Nintendo's new platform so they can get there fix of Sonic, Phantasy Star, etc. But little does the outside world know that Sega has a much more adventurous plan.  See the GBA will be able to connect to GameCube much like Sega's VMU units are used with the DC.  Nintendo has already stated that the GBA can be used in conjunction with the 'Cube and Sega is well experienced in that field.  

I happen to believe that GameCube won't make a presence until 2002 and this will give ample time for Sega's developers to begin major projects for Nintendo's machine.  By then their would already be a good relationship with Nintendo and thus attract all the loyal Sega fans to buy the GameCube.  This will also give ample time for Nintendo to set up Nintendo Online (Nintendo's Online Play Service).  Again Sega has ample experience in setting up a network for console games and there service would be most valuable to Nintendo's much less experienced team.  

By the time GameCube is launched there will be a huge installed base of GameBoy Advances and Sega's loyal fans won't feel cheated because the DC would have lasted 3+ years.  They will be ready for a new system and Sega will provide all there fans with updated chapters of Sonic, Shenmue, Jet Grind Radio, and many others.  

This union will send shockwaves throughout the industry.  Two of the best software development houses in the world united to combat Sony and MS.  Nintendo could once again take over the console market.


If this situation sounds farfetched to you please remember crazy things have happened before.  Who would have predicted that Square would jump to Sony? That Crash, Metal Gear, and other well known franchises be ported over to the XBox? What about MS making a console at all?  Remember the rumor mill has already started about Sega making games for the GBA.  Only time will tell.

Chris

   
01/08/01

Thanks to all the people that sent me ideas of where to go in Dallas!!!

Let's see, this morning I actually started a new workout regimen.  Now this has been the upteenth time I have tried to workout at the gym on a regular basis but I really feel this time it will be different since I have a guide to show me the proper exercises to do.  Who is this new guide you may ask?  

Well it's actually a cutout from a magazine article I read over the weekend.  Men's Health is the mag. and in the newest issue they show people who have never worked out before or are just newbies how to build strength up doing key exercises.  According to the mag the first phase (which is what I am in right now) lasts 8 weeks and you should start seeing results after the first 3.  In the March issue they will describe Phase 2.  I think my problem in the past has been that I never knew exactly what to do.  Sure I would stumble around on the machines for 20 or so minutes but we all know that the real way to build up strength is to use free-weights and I was scared to death of them.  Well after reading the article it showed me the proper techniques and now I am confident that I can stick with it.  

I wasn't able to finish Lunar 2 over the weekend.  But I am on Disc 2, hopefully by the end of this week I will have moved on the Vagrant Story or Chrono Cross (still deciding).

I had heard over the weekend that the XBox will probably cost more than PS2. Why on Earth would Microsoft think that people will choose the XBox over the PS2 (if it indeed costs more)?  XBox isn't that much of a difference over the PS2 and by then Sony will have lowered the price to say 250 or so.  Why would the mass consumer market choose a console from a company that's synonmous with software and geeky, when they could buy a less expensive console from a company that is well known for cool electronics and cool video games?  Sony's name and a great marketing plan is what drove the mass market to buy into the PSX franchise.  Microsoft can spend as much money as they want on marketing but the consumer's perception of a company and there products is just as important.  And if XBox launches at a higher price point I just don't see the mass market choosing it over the PS2.   

Price and software are the two largest issues that consumers care about when it comes to purchasing a console.  Not features.  Just look at Gameboy.  So if the price is high there better be some damn cool games that people must purchase an XBox in order to play. So far I only know of 1 game that is completely XBox exclusive.  Munch's Oddysee.  I am sorry but that game is not going to sell XBox units.  Sure EA is developing for it but remember they are huge PS2 supporters as well. 

Now I am not saying XBox will fail, Sony should be somewhat scared because XBox is less than a year away and people still can't find PS2's anywhere.  And I have heard that most people won't be able to find any until early-spring.  So that looks very good for MS, but launching at a higher price point than 300 is suicide.  Name one console that has survived that was priced above 300?  3DO?  Neo Geo?  If Bill Gates thinks he can buy his way into the console game industry he is sorely mistaken.  

Chris  



01/05/01

Rant of the day:

Someone please explain to me why there are 99% more bars than Dance clubs in Dallas, TX?  Don't people like to dance out here?  Finding a decent dance club out here is like finding Country music in my CD collection.  You can look all you want but you just won't find it.  People here for some reason enjoy sitting down (although you can usually only stand up cause it's so damn crowded) and drinking away there problems.  

The funny thing is that they play the type of music I like (which is trance, techno,etc) but no dance floors.  Oh and get this, one club I know has a dance floor the size of kitchen.  Now how in the hell is anybody supposed to dance when there isn't any room? 

In Salt Lake City though their are a ton of dance clubs.  Now this just doesn't make sense to me at all.  Why in mormonville (I have nothing against mormons mind you)  that they know more about shaking your booty than Dallas?  

If anybody lives in the Dallas area and knows of any DANCE clubs that play TECHNO music please drop me a line at chris@ritual.com

Oh and what does everybody think of the XBox design?  Personally I think sticking that big ugly logo on the controllers is a huge aesthetics mistake.  The big "X" on the console is kinda cool though.  And at least they decided to stick 4 controller ports on the thing instead of the horribly uncool 2 (shame on Sony).  Now let's just see what price point they decide to launch at.  Anything over 300 and they will be shooting themselves in the foot.   

Oh and I want to give a big hug and hello to KW!  I miss you!!!!

Till next time,

Be Safe


Chris



01/03/01

Happy New Year!!!

I hope everybody had a safe New Years!  

I would like to give a huge thanks to the fine folks over at GoD for a kick-ass New Year's Party down in Austin, TX.  Jon, Josh (the Galloway twins, and Kathryn (Josh's girlfriend), and I drive down Sunday mid-afternoon (just before all the snow came), checked into a Four Points Sheraton and proceeded to the club privately reserved for the party.  We arrived at an early time of 10 pm and began the drinking immediately.  Now I normally don't do a whole hell of a lot of drinking (even at parties) but an open bar is too much of a temptation.  So I began the night with a few Mandarin Screwdrivers, then took in many Crown Sours, a few Ace Pear Ale's and rounded the night with a couple of Malibu and Coke's.

Umm I don't remember too much after that as all the alcohol started settling in.  But I need to give another huge thanks to Kathryn for driving all of us safely back to the hotel.  

Oh the one thing I do remember is spewing chunks outside for the whole world to see. 

But thank the lord that the next morning I wasn't hung-over as we had to drive back to Dallas at noon.  

I am still playing Lunar 2, but hopefully will be done by Sunday or so.  I'll let everybody know how it is when I am finished.  

It is going to take me forever and a day to pay off my Christmas bills but you can help me out by buying Blair Witch 3: The Elly Kedward Tale.   It's really a decent game given the price point.  So go out to your local EB or Babbage's and pick up copies for your whole family (they make great post-Christmas gifts)  :)

Chris 




12/30/00

Let's see I bought a copy of Tetris for the DC the other day.  I got one word to describe it:  Disappointing

Tell me something please, why make a tetris game that only incorporates multi-player support in the "new and updated" version (which sucks ass BTW).  No multi-player support in the classic version of the game.  None.  And the point system is horrible as well.  I play tetris because I want to get a high school, I want to make as many tetris's as possible so that my score can sky-rocket.  But the developers decided that points aren't important so their is basically no advantage to making tetris's.  Worthless.  I go by the motto "If it ain't broke, don't fix it".  Remember Tetris for the GameBoy?  In that version making tetris's would bring much more points than just clearing 1 or 2 lines.  On top of that playing multiplayer was a blast because when one person made a tetris, a couple of lines would appear on the other player's screen (which increased the difficulty).  Now I know that Crave couldn't copy the mechanics of the GB tetris code by code.  But Jesus, please don't change the fundamentals of why Tetris is fun in the first damn place.  Avoid like the plague. 

On to some good news now. I finally beat the end bitc ooops I mean boss in FF9.  Yes the battle was somewhat difficult before but after I completed the Chocobo side-quest I was able to conquer that beeyatch pretty easily.  The ending was fairly good and even the end credits weren't boring to watch.  Speaking of which it's amazing how many people worked on that game as it definately rivals Hollywood productions. 

Well now I am on to Lunar 2.  So far it has been a good experience, I mean it doesn't hold a candle to the graphics in Square's opus but it's not supposed too.  It's a great old-school, fun, RPG.  I highly recommend to anyone that is fond of the old-school RPG's.

After that I will play Vagrant Story and Chrono Cross and then finish up with Front Mission 3 before moving on to all the DC RPG's.   

Well Happy New YEar everyone, be safe and I will talk to you all next year!!!


Chris    





12/27/00

Pre-New Years Edition

Well now everything has gone to hell.  Let's see I just got Grandia 2 for Christmas (Josh you are the best dude!!!) And Lunar 2!!! 

I have yet beaten the last dude in FF9 and it's already Wed. already.  

Arrrggghhhhh!!!!

Well looks like the remainder of the week is going to be a marathon of games, sex (well maybe not that), booze (Crown Royale here I come!!!).  Hope I will be alive come Tuesday morning.

Chris


12/20/00

Thanks to all that replied with there anwser to my GBA question I asked earlier.

Well I still haven't beaten the last boss in FF9.  But I am determined to kill him (it?!).  So I figured I will concentrate on the it during the Christmas break.  

Friends keep telling me to play Skies of Arcadia after I finish FF9.  I have the game and I figured I should play it after I finish Vagrant Story and Chrono Cross.  But after hearing some of the cooler elements to Skies I may have to change the order a bit.  

What does everybody think of Grandia 2?  I have heard mixed opinions and I don't know if it's worth playing.  

We had our Christmas party a couple of days ago.  The gag presents were quite funny.  I ended up with Lego!  Jon ended up with a bottle of Tequila (which is now gone!!). Jon loves his Tequila!!! :)

Well Merry Christmas everybody.  Hope everybody gets what they want (don't forget to give too!!)

Chris


12/18/00

Went over to Paradox's house warming party over the weekend.  Lotsa beer, beer, and more beer.  Had plenty of stimulating conversations with some 2015 guys that were down for the big CPL event going on out here in Dallas.  

The debate about who will win the next console battle rages on.  Many people think X-Box has got the war won already.  Others think Sony has such a huge name that they will be king. And still others think that Nintendo may pull a fast one and come out on top where they once held the position so many moons ago.

What do I think?  Honestly I have no idea.  But I do know this, it's a great time to be a gamer.  With so many choices companies will need to be price competitive and have good content in order to survive.  There is no clear cut winner this time.  

But if I had to make a choice I would have to go with the company that I grew up on.  Nintendo.  I have always had a soft spot in my heart for the Big "N" and I just don't see them going away anytime soon.  They have craploads of money and plenty of time on there hand as Pokemon continues to sell by the truckloads.  What gamer wouldn't buy a new Mario, Zelda, Metroid (about time), Star Wars, or any other big Nintendo brand. 

Plus remember that they are now switching to a much cheaper, industry standard medium.  With the Gameboy Advance being released next year and I am sure Nintendo will make it as interactive as it can be with the Cube.  Who wouldn't buy a GameCube game that interacted with a really awesome GBA game.  

1 Question for you all.  What would you all think of a really simple, scaled down RTS game for the GBA?  I mean one in which the battles took less than a half-hour (wouldn't want everybody to go blind)?  Let me know if you would buy one at Chris@ritual.com


Chris


   

  


12/15/00

I would like to comment on the Alli/Brooke situation that our Hog_Jonny is involved in.  

I live with Jon and I remember that night very well.  A few things our fearless Project Manager left out was that Alli came over to our place earlier that night while he was "away".  She knocked at the door and I of course answered.  She told me of her precarious situation and I told her that while I certainly can try to help out I think it would be better if Jon took "care" of her.  Why didn't I jump at the situation?  Well because I am not a "playa Hata" and I knew Jon was working the angle. I decided that a true friend would let the person who has done all the work continue. 

But let me also say that Jon decided to help them out without inviting me over there.  Here I am sitting all alone in the Apt. and he goes over there for many, many hours hogging up all the action.  No wonder why they call him "Hog_Jonny". :)

BTW - the email is not Stocks@ritual.com it's Chris@ritual.com.

Oh and I picked up Vagrant Story last night.  


12/14/00

So I got to the final boss in Final Fantasy 9 and low and behold I got my ass kicked up and down.  I think this could be the hardest end battle in the PSX Final Fantasy series.  Nothing beats the end boss in Final Fantasy 2 (American SNES version).  I have been somewhat pleased with FF9 but not overly blown away by the story.  Plus I feel it's somewhat short (I am on the 37th hour).  But all in all it's been a pretty good experience.  Do you all remember Xenogears and Final Fantasy Tactics?  Now those two games were #@$@#$@%@# excellent.  It took me over 60 hours to beat Xeno, while I played over 40 hours to beat tactics.  Plus I can remember the music in Tactics was the best I had ever heard at that time.  I just got so pumped up whenever I entered a battle area.  

Xenogears was a much different story altogether.  While I have never been a huge mech fan, I thought the story was very, very well done.  I loved the fact that it questioned God and creation.  I believe games should dig deep in social issues much like movies do.  Games that make you think about what is right and wrong. 

I think after I am done with FF9 I will move on to Skies of Arcadia and Grandia 2. So many games to play yet so little time.  I think thats every developer's problem. 

Chris 



12/13/00

Woo-hoo the .plan is finally being updated so the whole world can read my exploits, opinions, views, etc.....



Hello..... is this thing on???

Well this is the first time updating the .plan so we will see if this thing gets out....

New things:  Well Blair Witch is almost done and things are shaping up quite nicely.  Wait till you all see the weapon and spell stuff....those damn coding and art guys are something else. 

Not sure if you guys are going to get scared with BW but we are trying our best to give you a fun time (now get the minds out of the gutter right now!!).

See ya................until the game ships.

Stocks







