
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: stocks
Plan modified: Sun May 27 17:40:56 2001

************************************************************************
* NOTE:  Any views expressed here do not reflect the official position 
 of Ritual Entertainment.*  
************************************************************************

5/27/01

Earlier this morning I managed to score 674000 points in the Gameboy Color version of Tetris.  Next I am trying for a million, what is the highest score possible?  If you know email me please!


5/25/01

Hell YEAH!! I just received a Gameboy Advance from Nintendo of America (actually I ordered it yesterday via their developer's only website and it came via UPS today!  I don't have any games yet as the American games won't be out until June 11th (launch date).  The system is just the coolest thing ever, small but well designed.  Kids are going to eat it up like candy.  



5/21/01

E3 was GREAT!  Met a ton a people and saw a crap load of awesome games.  Here is my list of some the games I am most looking forward to this year.

1) Luigi's Mansion
2) Waverace: Blue Storm
3) Rogue Leader
4) Final Fantasy 10
5) Maximo: Ghosts to Glory
6) Metal Gear Solid 2
7) Silent Hill 2
8) Devil May Cry
9) Warcraft 3
10) All the GBA games
11) Super Smash Bros. Melee
12) Tony Hawk 3

Both Sony and Nintendo had great showings.  In fact, when the show first opened nearly 90% of the people ran to the Nintendo booth to check out all the GCN stuff.  

Microsoft on the other hand had a poor showing.  Most games at shoddy framerates, graphics were nothing to shout about, and the controller was the worst piece of plastic I have ever felt.  I can't imagine why people will buy the Xbox.  Japanese support is non-existent (which the exception of a few has been licenses).  None of the games at the show really looked (or played for that matter) better than Sony or Nintendo's showings.  Overall Xbox gets very poor marks.

Other cool happenings at the show.

I met Shigeru Miyamoto Wednesday night at the Nintendo party.  He was very gracious and humble and we even exchanged biz cards!  I told him I was a huge fan of his work and he is a legend in the industry.  I also had a chance to meet Hideo Kojima of Metal Gear Solid fame.  Again ultra cool and gracious as can be.

Overall a stellar show and things are looking really bright for Ritual.  Hopefully soon I can shed some light on the big happenings going down on the island!  Laterz

Chris



5/14/01

Only 2 more days (1 if you are not including today) until the GAMECUBE unveiling! Have you all seen the new logo?  If not go check out www.igncube.com for the scoop! BTW - Thanks Planet GAMECUBE for the scoop! 

So it looks like Rogue 2, Luigi's Mansion, Waverace: Blue Storm, Zelda, and just maybe a Pokemon title will be playable at the show!  All I can say is that I am going to be like a kid in a candy store when I get into the Console Hall inside the convention center.  

Time Magazine leaked out some info on Luigi's Mansion, basically they said you would play as Luigi, he would only be armed with a vacuum cleaner and flashlight and he will need to find all the ghosts in the house.  Hmmmmmm.  It sounds like it could be fun, but it also sounds highly reminiscient of Mario 64 (except with one main environment and you are collecting ghosts not stars).  I will reserve judgement until I play it first hand. 

Waverace and Rogue 2 are going to be %^$%#$%# awesome!  I have no doubt all the people at the show will walk away with their jaws on the floor once they get a chance to see these stellar titles. 

Zelda is a bit of an enigma.  Remember how long it took Miyamoto to finish Zelda: TOOT?  I am quite shocked they are going to have a playable version at the show.  I just hope it will be as groundbreaking as the previous versions.  

GBA is easy, cheap, and fast to develop for.  Plus a great title stands out from mediocre and poor titles.  Why you ask?  Because gameplay is what matters on the GBA, not graphics.  The GBA is a gem, pure and simple.  Oh and I don't think it takes more than a year to develop a kickass GBA game, in fact I think it would take 6 to 7 months to make a fun, addictive, and overall kickass game.

First thing Monday morning I will post my thoughts on the show.  

Talk to ya later!

Chris


5/10/01

First pics of Star Wars: Rogue Squadron 2 have been released to the populace.  And one word comes to mind...... AMAZING.  If this is a sign of things to come that we will all be in for a treat once GAMECUBE is released.  Oh and I now stand firm behind Nintendo's launch date of there new uber-system.  Every press release I have read regarding 'Cube software has stated that it's on track for a November 2001 release.

In related news, EA has announced they are developing 10 titles for the 'Cube.  Looks like 3rd party development will start cranking up very soon.  I think the initial batch of games will be mostly 1st party with 3rd parties releasing products afterwards.  Classic Nintendo 3rd party relation tactics.  

I would like to take a poll.  How many PC game players are going to buy a GBA?  Please email me with your response at chris@ritual.com  Please include your age and what type of games you like to play.  Thanks in advance!

Chris

5/3/01

So Square has decided to rerelease Chrono Trigger and Final Fantasy 4 (Final Fantasy 2 for the U.S. SNES)).  Needless to say I am ecstatic!!!!  Final Fantasy 2 is by far my most favorite out of the series.  Everybody owes it to themselves to experience it.  And to have Chrono Trigger included just sweetens the deal.  

Let me stress how excited I am that the GBA is almost out.  I think GBA games will get back to the basics of why a game is fun.  Sure graphics are important but it's all about the gameplay baby.  Since GBA is using 10 year old technology developers will not be able to "wow"  gamers with pretty graphics, they will actually need to incorporate fun gameplay in order to stand out from a crowd of mediocrity.  

I get asked a lot why I only speak of console games when in fact I work at a PC developer.  I do like PC games, just not many of them.  One of my favorite genres is Real-Time Strategy.  I have spent more hours playing Starcraft then most console games.  I also like Counter-Strike.  The problem is I don't like playing multi-player games over the internet.  I find it incredibly boring.  I love the fact that when I am playing against a group of people at the office I can talk smack when the game is over.  That kind of interaction if just not possible over the 'net.  So what generally happens is that I will play a PC game like 'Craft and CStrike for awhile and then once everybody loses interest I will stop and go back to console games.  It just so happens that right now I haven't found anything interesting to play.  I am sure once Warcraft 3 is released I will start playing on the PC again. 

5/1/01

Woo-hooo we're back online!  Over the past month I have been very, very busy.  We are getting prepped up for E3 and I for one can't wait to see all the Gamecube and GBA games that will be introduced for the first time in America (and the 'Cube stuff will be the first time the world as seen it).  I am really looking forward seeing what Miyamoto-san has in store for all of us.  I have always said Nintendo makes the best games and I am sure that trend will continue well into the next-generation games.

I am very sad to learn of Daily Radar's demise.  While I certainly disagreed with some of there reviews I always felt it was a cool place to go to read reviews and get different opinions on what was cool and what was not.  I feel this could be the start of a disturbing trend of high-profile gaming websites getting axed because the lack of profitability. I think we all agree that internet sites are far better for gaming news than gaming publications.

Games I am playing (what are you playing?):

Tony Hawk 2 (DC)
Spider-man (DC)
MDK2 (DC)
Rayman (DC)


3/25/01

I started playing MDK2 for the DC over the weekend.  Well actually I started playing it some 4 months ago only to get stuck on the very first boss.  But this past Saturday morning I popped it in and figured out how to beat him within 5 minutes of playing.  Since then I haven't been able to put the game down.  I love the fact that you play as all 3 characters, each character plays so differently that the game never gets stale.  

Remember Contra?  Here is a franchise that, to me, despite the pathetic PS attempts at recreating the true Contra experience still could be revived with a stellar next-generation version.  I miss the carnage and mayhem that went hand in hand with most of the previous Contras.  What about Smash TV?  Here's a game that put the player in a Running Man esque game show, you got a gun and were sent into these relatively small rooms only to be marauded by hundreds and hundreds of guys trying to kill you with their big sticks.  After minutes of killing it was time to move on to another equally small room and repeat the process over again but this time things would be a bit tougher.  You would eventually make your way to the boss room only to get the shite kicked out of you because the boss was %#@#$@ huge and had lots of firepower to deal with you.  I would sweat just playing the game, it was by far one of the most intensive games out there.  

Well, back to MDK2.   

3/22/01

I'm not the first one to say this but I hope that Serious Sam sells a buttload of copies.  Sure I may not be the biggest FPS fan out there but I know when I see a good game and for 20 bucks who could pass it up?  FPS + $20 + good game = $$$$$$$$$ (one would hope or something is drastically wrong with the game buying public)

The GBA came out 2 days ago in Japan and though I had mine preordered I decided to cancel it and wait for the American version.  Early reports state that the GBA is pretty cool except the screen seems to be darker than the GBC.  Why Nintendo decided not to release two versions (one with backlit and higher priced and one without at $99) is beyond me.  I am sure Nintendo has its reasons (marketplace, kids, etc).  But still I am going to hate having to play the damn thing with one of those ugly worm lights. Oh well.

Dance Dance Revolution came out today but unfortunately Konami decided they aren't going to release the dance pad until July.  Has anybody played Samba without the maracas?  It's virtually unplayable.  And although I haven't played it yet without the pad I can't help to think that the experience will be much the same.   

3/19/01

Today I would like to touch upon the subject of rudeness.  Yes we can all be rude at times but an incident happened to me on Sat. that just about tops the rudeness scale.  And what makes it worse is that it involves a section of the video game industry specifically the retail sector.  Here I was browsing my local Gamestop (for all you people that live in the Dallas area it was the one in Collin Creek Mall) and I go up to one of the sales clerks behind the counter and ask him if he had any PS2's in stock.  He replied "sorry but we don't have any".  Then another employee behind the counter opens his big @$$ mouth and proceeds to ask me this question "Do you have $300 to buy one?" I, of course, was extremely shocked to hear that and proceeded to speak very loudly to him  explaining to him that I didn't appreciate his comment.  I then walked out of the store only to go a few feet when I realized that I needed to speak to the manager.  I walk back in and pull the manager aside to tell him of his employee's rudeness.  Instead of getting an apology from him he ended up defending his employee my making several excuses stating that they get little kids in all the time asking for a PS2 and the employee thought I was a kid.  Unbelievable.  

So this is an open letter to Gamestop managers and up.  You have lost a customer.  A customer that spent a good deal of money in your store(s).  I also would like to advise everybody that if they want to get insulted go into the Gamestop at Collin Creek Mall and talk to the employees.  If not then please go somewhere else and buy your games at a more consumer friendly store. 

That is all. 




3/16/01 part 2

Yes 2 updates in 1 day!!  I am ecstatic to learn that Hiroshi Yamauchi has stated to Reuters that GC is still on track for an October release.  He reiterated that it is crucial for Nintendo to capture the holiday Christmas season.  

So folks if Nintendo releases a new system with a lineup of the following predicted games I think Sony and especially MS will have a hard time winning the mass market (especially since MS may charge 400+ for the damn thing).  Oh and I wasn't impressed with MS's lineup of games at Gamestock.  

Ok here goes my predicted launch lineup of games from Nintendo only not third parties.

Mario and Luigi Adventure

Waverace

Metroid

Rogue Squadron

1080 degrees Snowboarding (Given SSX's popularity this is given)

5 games should suffice.  Of course I would be nothing short of amazed if their are more. 

I can't wait till E3!!!


3/16/01

So I beat Conker yesterday morning.  Damn good ending and totally unexpected.  The game is kinda short but well worth the trip.  Plus the ability to replay every cutscene and part on in the game is genius!  I can't wait for Conker 2!

Now I am on to DK64.  I must have that I absolutely love platform games, probably more so than any other genre.  Don't get me wrong I still love a good 50+ hour RPG or strategy game but their is something surreal about collecting crap in and around a level or having to do a specific task that just gets my blood pumping.  

I think this is why I love Nintendo so much.  Rare and EAD have mastered the platform game, I know that when I purchase a Rare or EAD platformer I am getting a quality title that will keep me coming back for more.  The games are never too difficult and they have always been a pleasure to go through.  

I saw the very first game that I will buy a PS2 for.  It's called Ring of Red and it's a Tactical Strategy game that resembles Front Mission 3 but of course the graphics are 10 times better and it allows you to take control of your mech and move it around ala first person mode.

 

3/12/01

Well I have a new favorite game.  Can anybody guess what it is?  Let me give you a hint.  The main character is short, red, and is sarcastic as hell.

Yep I have been bit by the Conker disease.  I will simply say to all gamers (17 and up only) that you really must pick up this game.  If you don't have an N64 buy one and pick up Conker.  It is a must play for all adult gamers.  Yes must of the humor is a bit childish but their are plenty of other humorous moments that can only be enjoyed by the older gaming crowd.  The Saving Private Ryan scene is one of the very best moments in gaming.  I was shocked to say the least.  It's a RARE thing indeed to play a game that is meant for the older crowd but still contains hardcore platform elements that constantly push the player.  I am always wondering what's next.  Very refreshing.

So in short GO BUY CONKER'S BFD NOW!




3/01/01

I hate cold weather!!!!!!  Please let it be spring time and 75 degree weather!

2/26/01

So I finally beat FM3 (Front Mission 3) over the weekend.  Overall the game rates very highly on my list except that it was a tad too easy.  The last battle took me only 2 tries to beat it.  Moving on to Chrono Cross now and I will probably take my time on that as I have some personal things that need a lot of attention right now.  


2/21/01

The AIAS has announced the nominations for the Fourth Annual Awards show held at GDC.  Here is my pick for the winners.



Console Game of the Year: Shenmue


PC Game of the Year: Deus EX


Console Action/Adventure Game of the Year: Zelda: Majora's Mask
 

Console Family Title of the Year: Mario Tennis


Console Fighting Game of the Year: Tekken Tag Tournament
 

Console Racing Game of the Year: SSX


Console Role Playing Game of the Year: Final Fantasy IX 


Console Sports Game of the Year: Virtua Tennis 


Innovation in Console Gaming: Seaman  


PC Action/Adventure Game of the Year: Deus Ex


PC Family Title of the Year: Disney¹s Magic Artist 3D

  
PC Role Playing Game of the Year: Diablo II


PC Simulation Game of the Year: Links 2001


PC Sports Game of the Year: Motocross Madness 2.0 


PC Strategy Game of the Year: Age of Kings II: The Conquerors


Innovation in Computer Gaming: Sacrifice


Massive Multiplayer/Persistent World Game of the Year: EverQuest: Ruins of Kunark


Online Gameplay of the Year: Ultima Online: Renaissance 


Art Direction: Jet Grind Radio 


Animation: Space Channel 5 


Sound Design: Jet Grind Radio 


Original Musical Composition: Jet Grind Radio


Game Design: Zelda: Majora¹s Mask


Visual Engineering: Jet Grind Radio


Character or Story Development: Final Fantasy IV


Game of the Year 2001:  Shenmue or Deus EX (It's a toss up)




   

 


    

  

 

  

 

 



2/20/01

I am going to mark out a little bit and express how excited I am for Nintendo's new machines.  It's a known fact that Nintendo constantly delivers some of best quality games since the dawn of the NES.  I don't care if they choose to go the kiddie route and make sugary sweet games.  I am not playing a Nintendo game for the story I am playing it for the sheer fun factor.  And, my friends, that's what Nintendo consistently brings to the gaming table.  For if you want to have fun and want to get addicted to a game, simply pop in anything that comes out of EAD or Rare.  It's almost a guranteed thing.

But the Nintendo kiddie factor is changing (albeit slowly) for when Conker's Bad Fur Day releases here in the states it'll be a momentous occasion.  It will be the first time Nintendo will release a rated "M" game.  I think for us more mature gamers it's a great sign that Nintendo is willing to bend their rules to cater (read: reach) our generation.  But I will still play a Mario, Zelda, (Pokemon is going a little too far), and any other well known Nintendo brand.     

Chris

   

2/19/01

Metroid a FPS????  Please say it ain't so!  I am not sure Metroid would transfer into a 3D environment all that well.  Metroid has always been about platforming, and getting new powers so the player can go to new places using those powers.  It's well known that jumping in FPS's is a rather difficult and painful thing to do. So essentially they would have to reinvent the definition of a Metroid game.  So why call it Metroid at all? Oh yes, NCL wants to make money and people have been screaming for a new Metroid since SNES's Super Metroid was released.  Let's hope and pray for the best.

I am counting down the days until the GBA arrives.  I haven't been this excited for a new console since I got the Super Famicom (Japanese SNES) many years ago. March 21 is the day of release so I should be receiving mine on the 22nd.  I got overnight shipping!

I think I am very close to conquering FM3 and will be either moving on to Chrono Cross or finishing up Lunar 2.  


2/12/01

Ok for more info on yours truly checkout www.fuckheads.com for an exclusive interview!  It's a spectacular site filled with Zep's (the webmaster) intelligent banter and wit!  

Still playing the spectacular Front Mission 3, their are very few games I get addicted to but FM3 is definately one of them!  

Over the weekend I was trying to come up with my top ten list of best games I have ever played.  So without further ado here they are!

#10 Smash TV (SNES) - Never ending dudes to kill set in a futuristic Running Man type of game show!  Plus it had gore and huge bosses that blew up into tiny bits!

#9 Actraiser (SNES) - 50 percent side scrolling goodness and 50 percent city management.  Actraiser serves as one of the best sounding and looking SNES game to date!  Pure gold!

#8 Metal Gear Solid (PSX) - Probably the finest Playstation game to date!  Movie quality story, music, characters, etc)  Plus gameplay to boot!  

#7 Simcity (PC, SNES) - I will play this game for hours on end only to restart because I feel my city could be so much better.  It's one of the most addicting games I have ever played.

#6 Final Fantasy Tactics (PSX)  - Another shining example why Square is one of the best developers in the world.  Everything about this game screamed of high quality.  Music is simply unbelievable and the story is deep and poses some very intense questions about humanity.

#5 Tetris (Gameboy) - The most addictive puzzlers of all time. I have spent more hours playing this game then probably any other game ever.  

#4 Super Mario World (SNES) - I remember when I first played this game I was in complete awe.  I mean the difference between the SNES and NES were unbelievable. Plus the end boss (Koopa) flew through the screen (using the infamous Mode 7 effects).  I was blown away!

#3 Final Fantasy 2 (SNES) - The very first console RPG I have ever played brought me hours upon hours of playtime.  I still think the final boss tops every other console RPG I have ever played.  

#2 Zelda: Ocarina of Time (N64) - Zelda was and still is one of the finest games ever produced.  Miyamoto loves us all and it clearly shows in this classic.  From the opening to the incredible end battle with Ganon. this game is had me hooked.  

#1 Super Mario 64 (N64) - What can I say about Mario 64 that hasn't been said before.  It is indeed the greatest game to ever be produced.  This game brought me back in.  

Honorable mentions: X-Wing (PC), Castlevania IV (SNES), Super Contra (SNES), Waverace 64 (N64), Pilotwings (SNES), StarCraft (PC).

Chris 

2/8/01

So I started playing Front Mission 3 over the weekend and I haven't been able to put it down.  It is simple superb and everybody that likes strategy RPG's owe it to themselves to check it out.  The graphics are of course PSX so don't expect something revolutionary (by today's standards).  But the gameplay is unbelievable.  The game is incredibly deep and you can practically customize all parts of your team.

But I am getting a little ahead of myself.  Front Mission 3 is a turn based strategy RPG from Square.  You battle in huge mechs across a fairly large playing field.  I won't give away any of the story but suffice to say it's very Square-like and that my friends is a good thing if you like Square games! Plus longevity is supposedly over 150 hours!  Check it out!




2/6/01

Ok dudes, now that yesterday's brew haha is over let's get back to business of talking about games.  But 1 last thing.  Brandon, I hope to meet you at the next Dallas game gathering.  We can drink and be merry the Levelord way (which I am not sure I could handle but I can certainly try)!!! 
 


12:10 2/5/01

Ok, ok, so some of you 3D Realm guys are cool.  That little post earlier wasn't directed at all you guys.  Just one in particular.

Chris
2/5/01

"I'm Calling Out Names"

Mr. Reinhart over at 3D Realms has decided to comment on our very own Levelord's new monthly tradition of drinking and hanging out with the local game development community out here in Dallas.  

"And now I gotta cut ya"

Last time I looked, guys in the same profession (no matter what profession) hang out with each other and swap stories (Police do it all the time).  I think it's part of human nature.  What's wrong Mr. Reinhart? Did you feel left out? Or are you one of those smarty-programmers that can't hang out with us "lowly" Level Designers and Artists.  Wait, Jim Dose from the almighty Id showed up. So all programmers aren't like that.  You Unreal Tournament dudes a little too good for us Quake powered developers?  Or is it that you guys are so late on your project that you can't afford to spend a few hours hanging out with your peers?  Well if hanging out with the local game community is too high and mighty than I hope to not see you at GDC, or E3 for that matter.  Because the last time I went to one of those shows I (and so many other developers, publishers, etc) partied till the sun came up.      

Nothing wrong with some good ole' Masochistic fun. ;)

Chris  


2/1/01


Sega is finally throwing in the towel in the hardware biz.  Not hard to understand why.  It just proves that you have to be successful on both sides of the Pacific in order to stay in the console hardware biz.  

Let's all pour out a little liqour for the DC.  :)


//I haven't had a good night's sleep for over two weeks so I have lost track of the date

Heartbroken - Suffering from or exhibiting overwhelming sorrow, grief, or disappointment. (Dictionary.com)

For I am heartbroken right now...........................................


01/24/01

Well dudes I preordered the almighty Gameboy Advance the other day.  I haven't imported a system since the Super Famicom (Japanese SNES).  It will come with Mario Advance as a packaged deal for 200 bucks! If anybody wants to preorder one go to www.buyrite1.com for the info.

Well, it looks like Sega will start developing for the GBA and PS2 after all. Smart move on them, it's really time to hang up the hardware division and concentrate on making good games.  It's sad to see them go though, I was never a big fan of Sega's hardware systems of the past but I thought the DC was their true successor to the Genesis.  Sega also provided me with hours and hours of healthy debates between old friends of mine.  I, of course, was always a Nintendo fan and I would argue till the wee hours of the morning with my best friend Scott about which company (read system) was better. 

I am glad they caught the remaining Texas fugitives, it's quite amazing they got as far as they did though.  But it was only time before they were captured. 

Chris


01/23/01

I was watching the Today show this morning (I must say every Katie I have seen is pretty HOT!!!!!) Anyways I would like to comment on the recent raping of our natural environment.  What fucking idiot decides to maneuvar his big ass oil tanker into shallow waters near the Galapagos Islands? With technology as good as it is today one would think these situations can be avoided.  Now the tanker is spilling its guts thus causing a major ecological disaster.  The Galapagos is one the Earth's last remaining treasures and it is now being threatened by a man-made disaster.  We as a species do not deserve this planet.  

As we continue to fill the air with pollutants, spill oil in the seas, chop major forests down for lumber, and kill precious animals for their parts, the Earth will fight back.  It has already started.  Hurricanes will strengthen, winters will be colder, summers hotter, and new diseases will pop up.  These are Earth's defense mechanisms to fight off the plague (us) that has infested it.  


This will cause ramifications yet unheard of and all I can say is that we as a species deserve to get whatever comes to us.  

Chris 


01/19/01

Maybe Imagine fucked up after all...........

IGNCube insists that the GameCube will be released this year.  I hope they are right as I would absolutely love to play a new Nintendo system before the year is up.  If Nintendo releases both the Gameboy Advance and GameCube the same year I will be shocked. Their past track record for releasing hardware on time is horrendous but maybe they will actually keep their word. 

E3 is going to be huge this year, Sony will have all their second generation software, Microsoft will have XBox, Nintendo will have 'Cube and GBA, and Sega will be going out on a high note.  

Speaking of Sega it's incredibly upsetting that holiday sales weren't better than they were.  Sega had the best software lineup of any publisher and yet the games still sold like shit.  Are gamers that jaded these days?  Do gamers hate playing fun, inexpensive games.  Hell, Test Drive Le Mans (a 30 dollar game) is probably one of the best driving games ever and it has sold like shit.  Amazing.  There are so many good games out right now for the DC that it's sick.  Games that push the creativity envelope.  Even the hardware is cheap and still the DC is just not selling. 

It's a damn shame.
 
  

01/18/01

Have you all heard of Nintendo's lawsuit against Imagine Media for their Unauthorized Pokemon Training Guide?  Apparently Nintendo is pissed off that Imagine Media took screenshots from the game and used them in the guide.  As many of you know I am a huge fan of Nintendo and the products they release but I have to say suing a company that provides valuable info and news regarding Nintendo products is just plain crazy.  It's the "bite the hand that feeds you syndrome".  Imagine Media has since stated they will no longer cover Nintendo since they certainly don't want to be sued again for any stories that may ruffle Nintendo's feathers.  

I agree 100 percent with their actions.  I would certainly feel betrayed if a company I repected very much sued me for trying to help gamers.  The simple fact is Nintendo is suing them because publishing an unauthorized guide COULD cut into sales of the Authorized version.  Greed is a powerful sin.  



01/16/01

yea, it's raining!!!!



01/15/01

I am now on week 2 of the "Great American Workout".  I must say I have started to feel my energy, stamina, and strength improve.  Yes, there are only slight noticeable differences but differences nonetheless. 

I am interested in attending some raves around the Dallas area, if anybody knows of any please drop me a email with the 411.  I went to a few raves in the LA area and I had a great time then so I figured I would start going again out here.  

Has anybody ordered the Broadband Adapter from Sega?  I have heard some good things about it from various websites but does anybody have any "hands-on" experience with it?  

What does everybody think of the new Mario Advance game for the GBA?  It seems Nintendo decided to port over Super Mario 2.  Why they made that choice is beyond me.  I personally thought SM2 was the weakest Mario game out of the bunch (Figures as it wasn't really a Mario game in Japan nor was it made my Shigeru Myamoto).  

Going back on the Dreamcast subject........ I have heard some good things and bad things concerning the release of Phantasy Star Online.  I have heard it's a hell of a lot of fun but that the Japanese version crashes all the time and each time it does the player loses all his inventory.  I sincerely hope they fix those crashes for the American release.  I would be pretty pissed off if I spent hours upon hours collecting gear only to lose it by some random fucked up crash.

I want to say a hearty "HELLO" to all the guys at the local EBX here in Dallas, TX.  Hey dudes where is my PS2????

Well back to the dungeon...... till next time......

Be safe and have fun!

Chris

01/12/01

I would like to thank Jason Alejandre over at Novalogic for sending me an article written by Jason Bews and Kevin Parrish (but I don't know who those two are or from what website they came from).

Basically the article brought up some points about the DC chip (that Sega will be inserting into boards that will allow PC users the ability to play DC games).  It speculated that Microsoft could easily put that chip into the XBox and the Xbox could play all DC games right out of the box.  It was a very interesting article and it brought some very valid points.  For instance, why does the XBox controller look almost identical to the DC's (it even has two slots in the back for memory cards and what not)?  I mean shit the buttons are even the same color and their is also two analog triggers underneath.  This sounds very suspicious.  If it's true then MS has a ace up their collective sleeves.  We shall see.

Chris





01/11/01

Have you all seen the recent pics of some of the upcoming GameBoy Advance games?  I must say I am impressed with the GBA's capabilities.  I think Nintendo hit the proverbial nail on the head with the original GB.  That little thing has outlasted all consoles.  Now with a 32-bit version slated for release later this year I would say the sky's the limit for them.  

Think about all the old SNES games that can be ported over........ I would love a chance to replay Actraiser, Super Contra, Super Castlevania, Super Mario World, Zelda: A Link to the Past, etc....

But think about all the new games that various companies will make....... nothings wrong with going back to some old school gaming and I for one am looking forward to all the side-scrollers, RPGs, and racing games that will come out.

Nintendo will clean up when they release the GBA.  In fact I am predicting it will be the next holiday season's must-have toy.  

Chris


01/09/01

Today I would like to touch upon some thoughts about the Gamecube and why I think it could potentially be the next console leader.

One thing everybody understands is that Nintendo knows games.  They are on the same level as Sega's multitude of teams and maybe ahead of them too.  But here is a scenario that could easily play out and if it does you can bet both MS and Sony will be shitting bricks.  Here is the scenario:

With the impending console wars and Sega's recent financial troubles Sega has decided to exit the hardware market (a very real possibility) and start concentrating on software for various platforms (including cell phones, PDA's and other consoles).  They have a choice between Microsoft, Sony, or Nintendo.  

They won't choose Sony because there development teams are more familiar with RAM intensive machines (arcades, DC, etc). Also there is a deep-seeded hatred within the halls of Sega of Japan for Sony Corp.

They won't go for MS because while MS helped provide CE for DC, I don't think Sega thinks that MS has a chance in the console market.  MS has never done home electronics before (I don't count WebTV) and they have no experience whatsoever in the console market.  Plus the price point of the Xbox will be way too high for it to reach mass market potential (which Sega is clearly aiming for given there recent announcements and strategies). Sega is looking to make money and make it fast so XBox isn't a viable option.

Sega instead chooses to start a working relationship with Nintendo of Japan.  They announce that Sonic and other various franchises will appear on the GameBoy Advance.  It is a well known fact that Nintendo owns the handheld market worldwide and that isn't about the change soon.  It is also known that their is real money to be made and Sega knows this as well.  Remember they know handheld games, Game Gear was Nintendo's only real competitor and it was a decent system with some decent games. 

Now this starts a major swing in the right direction for Nintendo. All the loyal Sega fans will move onto Nintendo's new platform so they can get there fix of Sonic, Phantasy Star, etc. But little does the outside world know that Sega has a much more adventurous plan.  See the GBA will be able to connect to GameCube much like Sega's VMU units are used with the DC.  Nintendo has already stated that the GBA can be used in conjunction with the 'Cube and Sega is well experienced in that field.  

I happen to believe that GameCube won't make a presence until 2002 and this will give ample time for Sega's developers to begin major projects for Nintendo's machine.  By then their would already be a good relationship with Nintendo and thus attract all the loyal Sega fans to buy the GameCube.  This will also give ample time for Nintendo to set up Nintendo Online (Nintendo's Online Play Service).  Again Sega has ample experience in setting up a network for console games and there service would be most valuable to Nintendo's much less experienced team.  

By the time GameCube is launched there will be a huge installed base of GameBoy Advances and Sega's loyal fans won't feel cheated because the DC would have lasted 3+ years.  They will be ready for a new system and Sega will provide all there fans with updated chapters of Sonic, Shenmue, Jet Grind Radio, and many others.  

This union will send shockwaves throughout the industry.  Two of the best software development houses in the world united to combat Sony and MS.  Nintendo could once again take over the console market.


If this situation sounds farfetched to you please remember crazy things have happened before.  Who would have predicted that Square would jump to Sony? That Crash, Metal Gear, and other well known franchises be ported over to the XBox? What about MS making a console at all?  Remember the rumor mill has already started about Sega making games for the GBA.  Only time will tell.

Chris

   
01/08/01

Thanks to all the people that sent me ideas of where to go in Dallas!!!

Let's see, this morning I actually started a new workout regimen.  Now this has been the upteenth time I have tried to workout at the gym on a regular basis but I really feel this time it will be different since I have a guide to show me the proper exercises to do.  Who is this new guide you may ask?  

Well it's actually a cutout from a magazine article I read over the weekend.  Men's Health is the mag. and in the newest issue they show people who have never worked out before or are just newbies how to build strength up doing key exercises.  According to the mag the first phase (which is what I am in right now) lasts 8 weeks and you should start seeing results after the first 3.  In the March issue they will describe Phase 2.  I think my problem in the past has been that I never knew exactly what to do.  Sure I would stumble around on the machines for 20 or so minutes but we all know that the real way to build up strength is to use free-weights and I was scared to death of them.  Well after reading the article it showed me the proper techniques and now I am confident that I can stick with it.  

I wasn't able to finish Lunar 2 over the weekend.  But I am on Disc 2, hopefully by the end of this week I will have moved on the Vagrant Story or Chrono Cross (still deciding).

I had heard over the weekend that the XBox will probably cost more than PS2. Why on Earth would Microsoft think that people will choose the XBox over the PS2 (if it indeed costs more)?  XBox isn't that much of a difference over the PS2 and by then Sony will have lowered the price to say 250 or so.  Why would the mass consumer market choose a console from a company that's synonmous with software and geeky, when they could buy a less expensive console from a company that is well known for cool electronics and cool video games?  Sony's name and a great marketing plan is what drove the mass market to buy into the PSX franchise.  Microsoft can spend as much money as they want on marketing but the consumer's perception of a company and there products is just as important.  And if XBox launches at a higher price point I just don't see the mass market choosing it over the PS2.   

Price and software are the two largest issues that consumers care about when it comes to purchasing a console.  Not features.  Just look at Gameboy.  So if the price is high there better be some damn cool games that people must purchase an XBox in order to play. So far I only know of 1 game that is completely XBox exclusive.  Munch's Oddysee.  I am sorry but that game is not going to sell XBox units.  Sure EA is developing for it but remember they are huge PS2 supporters as well. 

Now I am not saying XBox will fail, Sony should be somewhat scared because XBox is less than a year away and people still can't find PS2's anywhere.  And I have heard that most people won't be able to find any until early-spring.  So that looks very good for MS, but launching at a higher price point than 300 is suicide.  Name one console that has survived that was priced above 300?  3DO?  Neo Geo?  If Bill Gates thinks he can buy his way into the console game industry he is sorely mistaken.  

Chris  



01/05/01

Rant of the day:

Someone please explain to me why there are 99% more bars than Dance clubs in Dallas, TX?  Don't people like to dance out here?  Finding a decent dance club out here is like finding Country music in my CD collection.  You can look all you want but you just won't find it.  People here for some reason enjoy sitting down (although you can usually only stand up cause it's so damn crowded) and drinking away there problems.  

The funny thing is that they play the type of music I like (which is trance, techno,etc) but no dance floors.  Oh and get this, one club I know has a dance floor the size of kitchen.  Now how in the hell is anybody supposed to dance when there isn't any room? 

In Salt Lake City though their are a ton of dance clubs.  Now this just doesn't make sense to me at all.  Why in mormonville (I have nothing against mormons mind you)  that they know more about shaking your booty than Dallas?  

If anybody lives in the Dallas area and knows of any DANCE clubs that play TECHNO music please drop me a line at chris@ritual.com

Oh and what does everybody think of the XBox design?  Personally I think sticking that big ugly logo on the controllers is a huge aesthetics mistake.  The big "X" on the console is kinda cool though.  And at least they decided to stick 4 controller ports on the thing instead of the horribly uncool 2 (shame on Sony).  Now let's just see what price point they decide to launch at.  Anything over 300 and they will be shooting themselves in the foot.   

Oh and I want to give a big hug and hello to KW!  I miss you!!!!

Till next time,

Be Safe


Chris



01/03/01

Happy New Year!!!

I hope everybody had a safe New Years!  

I would like to give a huge thanks to the fine folks over at GoD for a kick-ass New Year's Party down in Austin, TX.  Jon, Josh (the Galloway twins, and Kathryn (Josh's girlfriend), and I drive down Sunday mid-afternoon (just before all the snow came), checked into a Four Points Sheraton and proceeded to the club privately reserved for the party.  We arrived at an early time of 10 pm and began the drinking immediately.  Now I normally don't do a whole hell of a lot of drinking (even at parties) but an open bar is too much of a temptation.  So I began the night with a few Mandarin Screwdrivers, then took in many Crown Sours, a few Ace Pear Ale's and rounded the night with a couple of Malibu and Coke's.

Umm I don't remember too much after that as all the alcohol started settling in.  But I need to give another huge thanks to Kathryn for driving all of us safely back to the hotel.  

Oh the one thing I do remember is spewing chunks outside for the whole world to see. 

But thank the lord that the next morning I wasn't hung-over as we had to drive back to Dallas at noon.  

I am still playing Lunar 2, but hopefully will be done by Sunday or so.  I'll let everybody know how it is when I am finished.  

It is going to take me forever and a day to pay off my Christmas bills but you can help me out by buying Blair Witch 3: The Elly Kedward Tale.   It's really a decent game given the price point.  So go out to your local EB or Babbage's and pick up copies for your whole family (they make great post-Christmas gifts)  :)

Chris 




12/30/00

Let's see I bought a copy of Tetris for the DC the other day.  I got one word to describe it:  Disappointing

Tell me something please, why make a tetris game that only incorporates multi-player support in the "new and updated" version (which sucks ass BTW).  No multi-player support in the classic version of the game.  None.  And the point system is horrible as well.  I play tetris because I want to get a high school, I want to make as many tetris's as possible so that my score can sky-rocket.  But the developers decided that points aren't important so their is basically no advantage to making tetris's.  Worthless.  I go by the motto "If it ain't broke, don't fix it".  Remember Tetris for the GameBoy?  In that version making tetris's would bring much more points than just clearing 1 or 2 lines.  On top of that playing multiplayer was a blast because when one person made a tetris, a couple of lines would appear on the other player's screen (which increased the difficulty).  Now I know that Crave couldn't copy the mechanics of the GB tetris code by code.  But Jesus, please don't change the fundamentals of why Tetris is fun in the first damn place.  Avoid like the plague. 

On to some good news now. I finally beat the end bitc ooops I mean boss in FF9.  Yes the battle was somewhat difficult before but after I completed the Chocobo side-quest I was able to conquer that beeyatch pretty easily.  The ending was fairly good and even the end credits weren't boring to watch.  Speaking of which it's amazing how many people worked on that game as it definately rivals Hollywood productions. 

Well now I am on to Lunar 2.  So far it has been a good experience, I mean it doesn't hold a candle to the graphics in Square's opus but it's not supposed too.  It's a great old-school, fun, RPG.  I highly recommend to anyone that is fond of the old-school RPG's.

After that I will play Vagrant Story and Chrono Cross and then finish up with Front Mission 3 before moving on to all the DC RPG's.   

Well Happy New YEar everyone, be safe and I will talk to you all next year!!!


Chris    





12/27/00

Pre-New Years Edition

Well now everything has gone to hell.  Let's see I just got Grandia 2 for Christmas (Josh you are the best dude!!!) And Lunar 2!!! 

I have yet beaten the last dude in FF9 and it's already Wed. already.  

Arrrggghhhhh!!!!

Well looks like the remainder of the week is going to be a marathon of games, sex (well maybe not that), booze (Crown Royale here I come!!!).  Hope I will be alive come Tuesday morning.

Chris


12/20/00

Thanks to all that replied with there anwser to my GBA question I asked earlier.

Well I still haven't beaten the last boss in FF9.  But I am determined to kill him (it?!).  So I figured I will concentrate on the it during the Christmas break.  

Friends keep telling me to play Skies of Arcadia after I finish FF9.  I have the game and I figured I should play it after I finish Vagrant Story and Chrono Cross.  But after hearing some of the cooler elements to Skies I may have to change the order a bit.  

What does everybody think of Grandia 2?  I have heard mixed opinions and I don't know if it's worth playing.  

We had our Christmas party a couple of days ago.  The gag presents were quite funny.  I ended up with Lego!  Jon ended up with a bottle of Tequila (which is now gone!!). Jon loves his Tequila!!! :)

Well Merry Christmas everybody.  Hope everybody gets what they want (don't forget to give too!!)

Chris


12/18/00

Went over to Paradox's house warming party over the weekend.  Lotsa beer, beer, and more beer.  Had plenty of stimulating conversations with some 2015 guys that were down for the big CPL event going on out here in Dallas.  

The debate about who will win the next console battle rages on.  Many people think X-Box has got the war won already.  Others think Sony has such a huge name that they will be king. And still others think that Nintendo may pull a fast one and come out on top where they once held the position so many moons ago.

What do I think?  Honestly I have no idea.  But I do know this, it's a great time to be a gamer.  With so many choices companies will need to be price competitive and have good content in order to survive.  There is no clear cut winner this time.  

But if I had to make a choice I would have to go with the company that I grew up on.  Nintendo.  I have always had a soft spot in my heart for the Big "N" and I just don't see them going away anytime soon.  They have craploads of money and plenty of time on there hand as Pokemon continues to sell by the truckloads.  What gamer wouldn't buy a new Mario, Zelda, Metroid (about time), Star Wars, or any other big Nintendo brand. 

Plus remember that they are now switching to a much cheaper, industry standard medium.  With the Gameboy Advance being released next year and I am sure Nintendo will make it as interactive as it can be with the Cube.  Who wouldn't buy a GameCube game that interacted with a really awesome GBA game.  

1 Question for you all.  What would you all think of a really simple, scaled down RTS game for the GBA?  I mean one in which the battles took less than a half-hour (wouldn't want everybody to go blind)?  Let me know if you would buy one at Chris@ritual.com


Chris


   

  


12/15/00

I would like to comment on the Alli/Brooke situation that our Hog_Jonny is involved in.  

I live with Jon and I remember that night very well.  A few things our fearless Project Manager left out was that Alli came over to our place earlier that night while he was "away".  She knocked at the door and I of course answered.  She told me of her precarious situation and I told her that while I certainly can try to help out I think it would be better if Jon took "care" of her.  Why didn't I jump at the situation?  Well because I am not a "playa Hata" and I knew Jon was working the angle. I decided that a true friend would let the person who has done all the work continue. 

But let me also say that Jon decided to help them out without inviting me over there.  Here I am sitting all alone in the Apt. and he goes over there for many, many hours hogging up all the action.  No wonder why they call him "Hog_Jonny". :)

BTW - the email is not Stocks@ritual.com it's Chris@ritual.com.

Oh and I picked up Vagrant Story last night.  


12/14/00

So I got to the final boss in Final Fantasy 9 and low and behold I got my ass kicked up and down.  I think this could be the hardest end battle in the PSX Final Fantasy series.  Nothing beats the end boss in Final Fantasy 2 (American SNES version).  I have been somewhat pleased with FF9 but not overly blown away by the story.  Plus I feel it's somewhat short (I am on the 37th hour).  But all in all it's been a pretty good experience.  Do you all remember Xenogears and Final Fantasy Tactics?  Now those two games were #@$@#$@%@# excellent.  It took me over 60 hours to beat Xeno, while I played over 40 hours to beat tactics.  Plus I can remember the music in Tactics was the best I had ever heard at that time.  I just got so pumped up whenever I entered a battle area.  

Xenogears was a much different story altogether.  While I have never been a huge mech fan, I thought the story was very, very well done.  I loved the fact that it questioned God and creation.  I believe games should dig deep in social issues much like movies do.  Games that make you think about what is right and wrong. 

I think after I am done with FF9 I will move on to Skies of Arcadia and Grandia 2. So many games to play yet so little time.  I think thats every developer's problem. 

Chris 



12/13/00

Woo-hoo the .plan is finally being updated so the whole world can read my exploits, opinions, views, etc.....



Hello..... is this thing on???

Well this is the first time updating the .plan so we will see if this thing gets out....

New things:  Well Blair Witch is almost done and things are shaping up quite nicely.  Wait till you all see the weapon and spell stuff....those damn coding and art guys are something else. 

Not sure if you guys are going to get scared with BW but we are trying our best to give you a fun time (now get the minds out of the gutter right now!!).

See ya................until the game ships.

Stocks







