Account Name:  joes
Email address: joes@finger.3drealms.com
----------
7:31 PM 6/17/2002

Just a short note for those of you who have DirecTV and subscribe to their NFL Sunday Ticket package..

Someone did this last year, and I found it an invaluable tool, so today I started looking for the same file for this season, and then decided "Aw hell, I'll just do it myself".   This is an Excel spreadsheet (created with Excel from Office XP) which shows all the channels for all 17 weeks of the 2002 NFL season.  Anyway, it shows all the matchups, and I've also added info on the Sunday night ESPN games as well as the Monday Night Football games.

Last year I printed this out, and had it next to the TV, it was very helpful during the season in seeing which games are on what channel, and vice versa.  As my wife and I are both originally from Pennsylvania (me from Philly and her from Pittsburgh), it's really helpful when you live in Dallas to be able to *NOT* have to watch the Cowboys all the time .  Anyway, if you have the NFL Sunday Ticket package, and have something that can read this spreadsheet, download this file:

http://www.siegler.net/2002nflsundayticket.zip

Inside there is the Excel XP spreadsheet I'm talking about.  Print it out in landscape mode, and it'll all be on one page.  If you use it, drop me a line and let me know - always curious to know who uses my stuff.

Also, if you're a TiVo user and have a standalone TiVo box, you'll find out that the NFL Sunday Ticket (as well as the MLB Extra Innings and all the rest of their sports packages) don't have detailed information on specific games.  If you have a DirecTiVo (the DirecTV receiver & TiVo in the same box), then you'll have good info.  The reason is that the SA TiVo and the DirecTiVo use different guide sources for their info, hence the difference.

-----------------------------------------------------------

3:32 PM 6/17/2002

Work Stuff:

1 - Does anyone know of an app that will take a group of files that is really large, and split it up over several CD's to burn?  I have a few gigs of data I want to backup to a few CD's, and don't want to spend the time to optimize the data into groups so it will fit over several CD's.  There's got to be an app that will do this.  (And please don't go tell me to back up to DVD - that's not an option here).

Non Work Stuff:

1 - I have had a few emails asking me what I've been listening to 

lately, as I haven't published a list in awhile..

CD's I've been listening to lately:

1) Dio - Killing the Dragon (new - and awesome)
2) Deep Purple - Purpendicular & Perfect Strangers
3) Pat Benatar - Innamorata
4) Judas Priest mix CD
5) My "all bands I have CD's for" random mix CD's :)