Login: jsiegler       			Name: Joe Siegler
Directory: /usr/home/jsiegler       	Shell: 
Plan:
Joe Siegler (joe.siegler@apogee1.com)
Online Support Manager / WebDude
Apogee Software, Ltd/3D Realms Entertainment


October 1st
-----------
I just made two RTS files for Shadow Warrior.  They're made up
out of sounds from the game.  Here's the readme that I whipped
up for it.

I was playing some WangBang today, and it occurred to me that one
of my fav RTS files for Duke Nukem 3D was one where the user took
some game sounds and made an RTS out of it.  It was cool, because
you could "fake out" people with the sounds if you applied them
yourself, as opposed to when the game would.  For example, if you
could play the sound of the elevator in Hollywood Holocaust of
Duke3D, then your opponent would know where you were, or more to
the point, they'd think they knew where you were.   Same would go
for the car alarm in the first level of Shadow Warrior.

Anyway, with that in mind, I created these two RTS files.  The
first one is primarily Lo Wang speak, things like "I am the
Shadow Warrior", which the game normally says when you turn
invisible, "Two Wangs are better than one", and "Time to get
Erased".

The second is more sound effects, a door opening and closing, and
the Nuclear Weapon loading sound.  :)

All of these were in the sw.grp file except for one.  I stuck one
in there where Lo Wang goes "Swim, Swim, Hungry..  Stupid Fish",
which is of course a refernce to the legendary Dopefish.  Has
nothing to do with the game, but I stuck it in there to amuse
myself.  :)

Anyway, here they are.  Hope you like them.  If anyone comes up
with a better one, let me know!

Here's where to get it if you want it:

ftp://wuarchive.wustl.edu/systems/msdos/games/3dr/misc/wangrts.exe

Balls of Steel Stuff:

We just got another update of BOS from the team in Australia.
It's looking real good, and I'm making a final push to get the
help file done.  This is the first Windows Help file I've ever
made, so it's a learning experience.  I've been doing the tech
files for all of our games since Bio Menace.  That was the
first game of ours to have one (I thought of the idea).

Anyway, about BOS, it's close, should be out soon, if all 
goes well, but don't forget to take a good look at the 
"When it's done" sign on the wall.

There's a bunch of help programs out there, but the one I'm
using is "HelpScribble".  It's cheap compared to a lot of
the other ones out there, and it does the job.

Personal Note:

While writing this, my brother called me, and told me that the
pet cat we had for 17.5 years was put to sleep today.  Kind of a
sad moment for me, as I grew up with the cat, it was a good
friend to me for a good number of years.  I'll miss her.