Login: jsiegler       			Name: Joe Siegler
Directory: /usr/home/jsiegler       	Shell: 
Plan:
Joe Siegler (joe.siegler@apogee1.com)
Online Support Manager / WebDude
Apogee Software, Ltd/3D Realms Entertainment

October 20th
------------
Got another Zip disk in from Australia containing what's close
to the final version of the full Balls of Steel.  For those of 
you who have been following us for the last couple of years, 
you know that we've always seemed to release a shareware episode,
then the full game a couple of months afterwards.  This time
around, it's going to be a little different.  We're shipping the
full version off to GT, and then finishing up the shareware
episode.  I'll be telling folks what the status of all of this
is through my finger, so keep your eyes peeled.

There's actually an outside chance that the full version will be
on the store shelves before the shareware is ready, which would
be a first for our company in the slightly over 10 years it's 
existed!  However, I wouldn't bet the farm on that.  :)

My Installshield install is done, and now I'm waiting on final 
code for the game, and one or two minor text/font tweaks to the
help file, and we're ready! :)

Personal Stuff:
---------------

There's been a few screenshots of my office let out over
the site in the last couple of months, and I've had a few
requests about the "BillGatus of Borg" poster that's on my
wall.  It's a cover that Boardwatch Magazine did back in
April of 1996, and has Bill Gates as a borg assimilating
the entire United States.  :)   It's pretty funny, and if
you'd like to see a picture of what it looks like, you can
click here.

You can order it yourself (as well as the T-Shirt version
of the same image) from Boardwatch.  They have a page on
their site for this here: http://www.boardwatch.com/poster.htm

A couple of months later, they did a second cover like this
with Jim Clark from Netscape as the Tin Man from Wizard
of Oz with BillGatus of Borg.  I don't believe they ever made
a poster out of that, but there's an image of that one on
their site at: http://www.boardwatch.com/mag/covers/july96.jpg.

CD's I'm listening to:

Bill Ward - When the Bough Breaks
Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers - Greatest Hits

Speaking of CD's, I updated my online collection of CD's;
if you have some desire to see my collection, you can view
it here.