Login: jsiegler       			Name: Joe Siegler
Directory: /usr/home/jsiegler       	Shell: 
Plan:
Joe Siegler (joe.siegler@apogee1.com)
Online Support Manager / WebDude
Apogee Software, Ltd/3D Realms Entertainment

October 30th

Work Stuff:

I've finished all of my work on Balls of Steel.  I'm done with the
install program, and I'm done with the help file.  It was a pretty big
learning experience doing a Windows help file.  I found a really cool
shareware program called "HelpScribble" to do it.  I investigated 
several programs (including retail stuff), and this did the job the
best, especially considering I didn't know anything about it going in.
If you'd like to check it out, go here:
http://www.tornado.be/~johnfg/helpscr.html

Personal Stuff:

This past Sunday was my one year anniversary.  I've been married now for
a year.  It rocks.  Marriage is the best thing you can do, provided you
have the right person.  I married my best friend from the previous 10
years.  That's why it rocks.

I got a few Emails on this, so I'll mention it.  Yes, that is me that
does the web site for Black Sabbath.  It's at http://www.black-sabbath.com.
I'm not sponsored by the band, it's just a fan run site that also
happens to have the domain name of the band.  :)

I do, however, do the official web site for Bill Ward at http://www.billward.com.
Bill Ward is the original drummer for Black Sabbath, and that *IS* an
official site.  I've also been contacted by two other former Black 
Sabbath members about doing sites for them, too.  Can't say who they
are at the moment.

Internet Explorer v4 Woes:

I also want to spout off about MicroSoft Internet Explorer v4.  I have
always been a Netscape user.  I've been using Netscape since v0.something.
As the person who does our web site, I have to have both of them on
my system, mainly for checking content to make sure there isn't some
huge fatal error.  Anyway, I was curious about MSIE 4.  I wanted to see
what all the hype was about.  Well, I got the CD from MicroSoft, and 
installed it.  I installed it with the full integration.  There are some
really REALLY cool features there.   My favourite was the one where if
you use the Webized Explorer, and you click on a registered data file
such as a graphic (JPG/GIF), or even an HTML page, it will put a small
thumbnail of that in the explorer window, so you can see what it looks like
w/o actually loading it.  That was rockful.  I even loved OutLook Express.
I didn't think I would like it so much.

HOWEVER...

Beware if you use the full intergration option.  It worked fine for me, so
long as I didn't try to change anything.  On my machine at home, I decided
to delete it, and put Netscape Communicator back.  Well, I tried to uninstall
it, and it did uninstall.  However, after that, I couldn't run anything.
I kept getting the blue screen of death, and kernel crashes, and all kinds
of nasties.  So, I tried reinstalling Win95 overtop of it, and that didn't
help.  I had to issue the second worst command you can issue on a computer,
and that's "deltree c:\windows".  Ughhh..  Had to reinstall from the ground
up.  Totally. 

OK fine, I thought since my home machine was a mess as it also used to be 
my work machine (when I say mess, I mean old half uninstalled programs,
extra drivers, dll's, that kind of thing), it wasn't that big of a deal,
really.  Plus, I got the chance to have a fresher install of Win95.

Guess what?  It happened at work, too!  I wanted to keep MSIE4 there, but
I wanted to remove the "webized" Explorer.  Tried just removing that, and
had the same blue screen of death errors at work.  I had to deltree windows
AGAIN, and reinstall Win95 from scratch at work, too.   Lost the better
part of two days work because of all that.  So, once I got myself going 
here, I'm back to Netscape Communicator.  The next "big" version of Netscape
is supposed to have the same kind of Explorer Integration that MSIE4 does
now.  I wonder if it will be more reliable?   And then there's Win98... :)

Ughhh!!  I like MSIE4.  Far better than I thought I would.  However, I cannot
justify the system risk for it.  If you want to use it, be careful.  
Big time.  I hardly ever make backups; I suppose I should.  :)