Login: jsiegler       			Name: Joe Siegler
Directory: /usr/home/jsiegler       	Shell: 
Plan:
Joe Siegler (joe.siegler@apogee1.com)
Online Support Manager / WebDude
Apogee Software, Ltd/3D Realms Entertainment

November 6th
------------

Been playing a lot of Balls of Steel as we wait for final code from
the developer.  Usually, when we release a game, I'm tired of playing
it, since we play them in house here an awful lot before the public
sees it.  I'm still having fun with this one.  I think you're gonna
love it too.

Also, I've found that it plays really nice with the MicroSoft Sidewinder
GamePad.  If you have one of these, you'll find it's really suited to
Balls of Steel.  BOS supports this, provided you have the correct 
software from MicroSoft installed.

And yes, I'm well known for disliking these types of controllers, this
is the first game that made me seek out one so I could play it this
way.  :)

Movie Stuff:
------------

Dissin' Starship Troopers?  It's a Hollywood Movie.  Just what were
you expecting?  Of course it's going to be lame compared to the book.
It's a testocerone filled piece of fluff, I'm sure.  It'll probably
look good, but if you're expecting Oscar movies, you shouldn't be 
watching things like Starship Troopers.

Speaking of movies, there's a pile of things I want to see coming out
soon.  Starship Troopers, Alien Resurrection, Bean, & Tomorrow Never
Dies.  

Also, I heard that the working title for the ID4 Sequel is (get this)
ID4ever.  :)   From what I heard, the plot is supposed to be something
about Earth dealing with the aliens that were left over in the crashed
ships who have gotten out and are around Earth.  All while another wave
of ships is supposed to be coming in.   We'll see.

The Bond movie is supposed to be the best *MOVIE* in 20 years from what
I'm hearing.  If you're a Bond fan, this is supposed to rock.  Big time.
I've seen every Bond flick since Moonraker in the theatres opening day.
Hell, I liked the George Lazenby bond!  :)

Want a good site for Bond?  Go here: 
http://www.mcs.net/~klast/www/bond.html.  That's a site run by Kimberly
Last, and I've been a visitor there for a long time.  If it's anything
James Bond, it's here.  This place is awesome if you're into Bond.

I'm actually looking forward to Alien Resurrection.  I have a decent
feeling about this, and I might be one of the few people that liked 
parts of the third Alien movie, although it bites hard compared to the
first two.  Be nice to see Ripley again.

Other Stuff:
------------
I'm a big Sports fan, and I love baseball.  Grew up in Philadelphia, and
was a Phillies fan all my life (still am, but since I live here now, I pay
more attention to the Texas Rangers).  Anyway, it was real nice to read
the Phillies' Scott Rolen got NL Rookie of the year.  He deserved it.