Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
Online Support Manager / WebDude
Apogee Software, Ltd / 3D Realms Entertainment

Update - February 10, 1998


Balls of Steel v1.1:

It's out.  I posted the files to the Apogee & Pinball Wizards sites.  Go get 'em.  :)
There's a list of what's new on the 3D Realms news site.

"Apogee98" Site:

The feedback has been coming in on the new site, and it's been overwhelmingly positive!
Thanks!  It was a lot of hard work doing all of this, and I'm glad that people are 
enjoying it.  There were a small handful of negative remarks, primarily by people who
are at a screen resolution of 640/480.   Again, as with the GreenTV site, there is no
accomodation made for a screen resolution of 640/480.  This site is coded for a screen
size of 800/600, and Apogee98 looks better in 1024/768 than GreenTV did. I'm sorry, 
but 640/480 is just too flippin' small.

My favourite msg against the new site went something like this:  "It looks OK, but I
liked the new one better.  But then again I'm a dark and gloomy person, and I don't
like bright things anyway."  :)

If you are using 800/600 and aren't seeing everything on the left menu (I've gotten a
couple of Emails about this), you probably are chewing up too much of your screen size
with menu bars and whatnot.  I recommend turing off as many menu options as you can
while still keeping as many things on screen as you feel you need to get comfortable.
I've got a few screen dumps of my machine at 800/600 that I put online to illustrate
what I'm talking about.

Image #1 is my machine the way I normally use it.  I get the most screen real estate
out of this way of doing things, and I can easily see everything on the site.

Image #2 is my machine with the navigation bars in Netscape turned on.  I normally don't
use these, as I do most of my navigation with right clicks on my mouse.  Anyway, as you
can see, you can still see virtuall everything this way, just not the counter on the 
bottom (you'll still be counted though)

Image #3 is with all the menus turned on in Netscape 4.  As you can see, most of the left
side is chopped off.

If you're not seeing the whole left menu, you should probably try turning a few options
off.  I know Netscape 3 has these things, too.  Netscape 3's buttons are massive.  Try
turning off the images there, and just go with text.  It's much smaller.  I use MSIE v4
at home with my Win98 beta, and there's a fullscreen option in MSIE v4 that's really 
damn cool.  If you're using MSIE v4, you should try that.


Trivia Question:

Answer #3:
Harrison Stryker of Major Stryker is related to Duke Nukem.
B. J. Blazkowicz of Wolf 3D is also related to William Joseph Blazkowicz II(Billy Blaze), from Commander Keen.

Question #4: (An easy one, actually)

Who has the honour of mispelling his own name in his game, and what game was it?


Misc Stuff:

1) I was looking for a program the other day that will change my windows wallpaper for me
   automatically.  I found a million of them.  But, I'd like one that would look for the
   image files inside a zip file.  None that I found did that.  Does anyone know of any
   like that?  If so, please let me know.

2) Also (and this is gonna sound really REALLY geeky), but is there anyone out there who
   likes the old TV show Alf?  My wife and I love that, and if you happen to have the
   show on tape, send me an Email.

3) Regarding Keith Schuler's "Monkey" finger update.  Go to his bio page on our web site,
   and click on his nose.  :)


Funky Web Sites I've found Recently:

1) http://www.mindspring.com/~isixtyfive/404page/404.html
   The "404 Not Found HomePage".  This thing is funny.  I love the milk carton ones.  :)

2) http://www.cnn.com/TECH/computing/9802/04/belgium.gates.ap/
   Bill Gates getting hit by a cream cake - With Video!

3) http://www.cagle.com/scandal/
   A Collection of Political Cartoons about the current Clinton/Lewinsky thing. - Very Funny!


CD's I'm listening To:

Titanic Soundtrack
Tomorrow Never Dies Soundtrack
Black Sabbath - Siegler's Hits (I made my own CD of their tunes)
Prince - Around the World in a Day