Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
----------
Online Support Manager / WebDude
Apogee Software, Ltd / 3D Realms Entertainment

February 19, 1998


Work Stuff:

I'm working on a new feature for our web site, Forums (aka msg bases).  Hopefully 
it will be online shortly.  :)



The "Killer" Syndrome:

I was on ogr.com today reading their news page, and for about the billionth time since 
people started playing these games, I saw the phrase "... killer" (this time used as
'the upcoming Descent-Killer, "Forsaken").   This is another one of those stupid things 
you see out there.  Who says this game is supposed to be a "killer"?   Why does any game
that comes out that looks like Quake or does anything remotely similar to Quake have to
automatically be called a "Quake Killer"?  That's so bullshit to me, it's not funny.

Long ago (5 years ago is forever anymore) in this industry, I remember when people were
simply excited to see a new game come out without slamming other games to do it.  
"Oh wow, there's a new Keen game!"   "Look, Epic's released Jazz Jackrabbit!"   You 
never heard Jazz Jackrabbit being called a "Commander Keen Killer", did you?  You didn't
hear Monster Bash being called a Jazz Jackrabbit killer, did you?  When was the last 
time you read about Blood being a Duke killer (OK, I may have actually seen that one).
I mean, when exactly did this start?  The earliest that *I* can remember was ROTT being
called a Doom killer.   I won't even go into the reality of that statement, just saying
I heard it.

What's the point?  This industry has enough sniping, bitching, and backstabbing without
another stupid negative thing in it.  I mean, what's to gain by calling "Half Life a 
Quake II Killer?"  I mean...  **WHY?**   Can't we just call Sin another cool 3D action
game coming out, instead of calling it a "Duke Killer" or whatever?  I know people 
promote games, and try and draw attention, but usually a game that has to resort to this
kind of phrase usually isn't any good, and the "killer" thing is drug out again.  If
you ask me, if a game can't stand on it's own merits, and has to resort to this kind
of stuff, don't bother.

Whether the comparison between whatever two games is even valid or not is irrelevant.
I think the whole idea of calling (name of game) a (another game) killer is insanely
childish.   It's so stupid, and so inane, that I can't comprehend why anyone with the 
intelligence level over a grape would resort to something stupid like that.  Of course,
George Carlin said the most brilliant thing a long time ago...   "Take your
average stupid person, and realize that half of them are stupider than that!"

I'm sure it all boils down to hype, and in a way, it kind of ties into what David Laprad
had to say over on avault last week about how screenshots hinder one's anticipation of
an unreleased game, rather then enhance it.  David's article is a damn great look on
this issue.  Check it out at: http://www.avault.com/articles/screens.asp.

Generally, I see this stuff most on news sites and reviews and things like this.  
The industry itself generally doesn't say things like this (at least that's my recollection).
I would love to see this little catch phrase lost.  It's stupid, bullshit, and is something
that we could do better on.  How about some thought about this, folks?  Specifically, the
people writing reviews and game news sites.  




Miscelleanous Stuff:

1) Did anyone watch the Olympics last night?  When one of the female figure skaters was coming
off the ice, someone threw an Alf doll onto the ice, and she held it for awhile on camera.
Cool!  Alf!  :)

2) Someone once asked me what game I'm most looking forward to being released anytime soon.
Accolade's Hardball 6.  I tend to play games that are nothing like my company's games or
the rest of the industry.


CD's I'm listening to:

Geezer - Black Science
Black Sabbath - Sabotage
Judas Priest - Jugulator
Van Halen - Best of Vol. 1




Scary Thoughts and things:

1) UPN is reviving the Love Boat.  Ughhhh.  And guess who is going to be the captain?
   Robert Urich.  Hmm.. Other than Vega$ and Spencer for Hire, has he done anything else?

2) Marilyn Manson.  Enough Said.

3) Titanic 2 (alledegly to follow life of survivors after events of movie).

4) Stevie Nicks keeps her (removed) breast implants in the freezer.

5) This picture of Todd Replogle.  :)
   OK, I didn't read about it, but it is scary.  :)

6) Barbara Streisand.  Ughhh..

7) Shirley MacLaine.  Wretch.

8) The Spice Girls & Hanson.  Oh my GOD!

Things I'm gonna take shit over probably.  :)

1) It's about time Seinfeld is going off the air, dammit.  Not funny at all.

2) I've never seen Pulp Fiction.

3) I still watch Alf.  Deal with it.