Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
----------
Online Support Manager / WebDude
Apogee Software, Ltd / 3D Realms Entertainment

4:37 PM 2/27/98


Trivia Question:

Last Question: Two games of Apogee's over the years have had the same individual episode title. What were the two seperate games, and their episode numbers?

Last Answer: Both Duke Nukem I episode 1, and Duke Nukem 3D Episode 3 have the same individual episode title, that being "Shrapnel City".

New Question: Other than Scott's parents, who was the first person ever hired as an Apogee employee?

The answers to these get posted over at Lon Matero's page, but I'd be curious to hear y'alls guesses to these, especially as no one had an idea on this past question, which surprised me.


Stuff:

1) We had a rather large thunderstorm here Wednesday night.  It appears to have fried the camcorder I was using for the Live Cam.  It's broken again.  If I can't fix it by middle of next week, I'm gonna have to take it into the shop.  (sigh).  Or just get a new one.  :)

2) The Frontpage98 Msg Forum software seems to not like the pressure we're putting on it.  Three times now I've had to reset the forums due to corrupted messages.  :(

3) Fortunately, I've already selected replacement software and it's far far more powerful than this stuff.  The software is called "The Ultimate Bulletin Board", and is also currently in use over on Epic Megagames' site.  The software isn't written by them, it's a freely available software package.  If you want to check out the forum software, go here and check it out.  I'm using the final "free" version they released before they announced (today) that the software as no longer freeware.  :)

4) On Wednesday, I released a patch for Rise of the Triad that puts Dopefish in it.  It's been hanging around since mid 1995, and I've never done anything with it till now.  It's over on my dopefish page at http://www.dopefish.com.  I'm not putting it on the Apogee site, as it's not anything official, and I don't want it mistaken as such.

5) Today was the first pre-season game for the Texas Rangers, and my wife did something really cool.  She brought Hot Dogs, sauerkraut, peanuts, a Rangers cup, and some other baseball goodies up to my office today for lunch.  Man that was cool!  (Rangers won 7-0, too!)

6) Does anyone know of any more Online Web based free Email systems besides these?  I am aware of:

Yahoo - http://mail.yahoo.com
Hotmail - http://www.hotmail.com
Eudoramail - http://www.eudoramail.com
Altavista - http://altavista.iname.com

If you know of any others, drop me a line over at my Yahoo mail account, dopefish@yahoo.com.  Thanks.  I'm not talking about stuff like iname.com, which is mail forwarding, but something that lets you read/reply/compose your mail online.

7) Someone asked me about the movie posters on my wall that were showing up on the Live Cam.  For the record, I have these:  Cornholio, BillGatus of Borg, Voyager: 7 of 9, Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies, & ID4.   The movie posters come from a really cool site on the net at http://www.movieposters.net.  Check 'em out.
	
    