Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
10:57 AM 3/18/98

Personal:

0) If anyone cares, I'll be at E3 with 3D Realms this year.  I don't know what we're planning in the way of showing our games, so please don't ask me.

1) Yesterday was the 25th anniversary of the release of Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon.  Brought it in to work today for a spin.  This CD should be REQUIRED for anyone who has a CD player.

2) If anyone's seen me on the Live Cam, you've probably also seen that I need to lose some weight. :)  I got out my bike and rode it yesterday for the first time in about 2 years.  Felt good, if different.  :)

3) Regarding British Live Concert Audiences:  I'm listening to Pink Floyd's Pulse today, and there's a sequence that you hear inbetween some tracks where the audience is doing some sort of chant.  I've heard it on other live stuff recorded in the UK, as well as on some bootlegs by Black Sabbath, so I know it's not Pink Floyd specific.  If there's anyone from over there (or elsewhere) who has a clue what I'm talking about, can you Email me and tell me what this chant is supposed to be?  I don't understand it. 

4) More on Pink Floyd: David Gilmour's Guitar Solo on Comfortably Numb is just too rockful for words.  The version on Pulse is even better than the studio version (that's what I'm listening to as I type this in).


Trivia Question:

Last one: (Who was the first Apogee Employee?)  The answer is Shawn Green.  Other than Scott's parents, Shawn was the first employee hired by Scott, when he used to run the company out of his bedroom.

New Question: What was the first game of ours to include a level editor with the registered version of the game?

Will I ever write about real work stuff in my plan?  The mystery goes on.  :)

CD's I'm listening to today:

Madonna - Ray of Light (it's catching on me)
Pink Floyd - Pulse
Van Halen - 3 (Damn if Gary doesn't sound like Sammy on a lot of this album)
Journey - Trial by Fire
Quiet Riot - Terrified (1993 QR album - Deal with it.  I still listen to them!)
	
    