Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
2:37 PM 3/27/98


Trivia Question
---------------

Last Question: What was the first game of ours to include a level editor?

Answer: I had an awful lot of people guess Boppin, and a few Duke3D, but only one person (Doug Howell) got the right answer.  The first game with an editor was "Jumpman Lives!".

New Question: What was the first game of ours to have sound card support?  (NOTE: PC Speaker does *NOT* count).



Music
-----

Ever since I posted in my plan about Pink Floyd, that's almost all I've been listening to here.  :)   

However, this morning, I listened to Roger Waters' "Amused To Death" (for about the billionth time), and it struck me again how right he is in a lot of his lyrics.

For those who don't know it, "Amused To Death (or ATD)" is (at least according to my translation) about how soceity has killed itself with entertainment; that we've lost the ability to feel and care because we're too busy with "things" and material possesions.  The final song on the album is also called "Amused to Death", and I've put the lyrics for it here in my plan.  I just find them awesome.  That's about all I have to say today except what CD's I'm listening to:

Roger Waters - Amused to Death
Pink Floyd - Pulse
Pink Floyd - Animals
Pink Floyd - The Division Bell
David Gilmour - About Face

Amused to Death Lyrics:

Doctor Doctor what is wrong with me
This supermarket life is getting long
What is the heart life of a colour TV
What is the shelf life of a teenage queen
Ooh western woman
Ooh western girl
News hound sniffs the air
When Jessica Hahn goes down
He latches on to that symbol of detachment
Attracted by the peeling away of feeling
The celebrity of the abused shell the belle
Ooh western woman
Ooh western girl
And the children of Melrose
Strut their stuff
Is absolute zero cold enough
And out in the valley warm and clean
The little ones sit by their TV screens
No thoughts to think
No tears to cry
All sucked dry
Down to the very last breath
Bartender what is wrong with me?
Why am I so out of breath?
The captain said excuse me ma'am
This species has amused itself to death
Amused itself to death
Amused itself to death

We watched the tragedy unfold
We did as we were told
We bought and sold
It was the greatest show on earth
But then it was over
We ohhed and aahed
We drove our racing cars
We ate our last few jars of caviar
And somewhere out there in the stars
A keen-eyed look-out
Spied a flickering light
Our last hurrah
Our last hurrah
And when they found our shadows
Grouped around the TV sets
They ran down every lead
They repeated every test
They checked out all the data on their lists
And then the alien anthropologists
Admitted they were still perplexed
But on eliminating every other reason
For our sad demise
They logged the only explanation left
This species has amused itself to death

No tears to cry, no feelings left
This species has amused itself to death
	
    