Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
10:15AM 4/9/98

I posted this originally on March 31st, but due to our DNS mail problem, none of the finger programs could see it.  If you can see this, it means our DNS has been cleared up, and our fingers are back!


Trivia Question
---------------

The last question was far too easy.   It was "What was the first game of ours to have sound card support?"

The answer was Dark Ages.  One fact that no one mentioned was that Dark Ages was the first shareware game PERIOD to have Sound card support!

New Question (a bit harder): How many people have worked in the Tech/Customer Support Department (aka the people who answer the phones) in the history of Apogee, and who are they?



Work Stuff
----------

Today is the final day for my graphic contest for our web site.  I'm turning off the contest Email address tomorrow morning early, so you had better get them in NOW!  It will take some time to sort through all the entries (there's A LOT), so give me some time.  :)



Other Stuff
-----------

1) Today is opening day for Major League Baseball.  I'm there. :)  Got my binoculars, my peanuts, my pencil for the scorecard...  I'm ready!  For the record, I'm a season ticket holder for the Texas Rangers, and I also like the Philadelphia Phillies (A home town thing - I grew up with the Phils; I was 15 when they won the Series in 1980).

2) If you use Agent as your newsreader (not Free Agent, but the paid for version, Agent), they finally shipped the shrink wrap packages.  I got mine yesterday.  

3) Tomorrow is April Fool's day.  You may see messages out there about some of our games giving specific release dates.  I can guarantee you now that it will be a joke.  Of all of our games under development, none has a specific release date set yet.  Unless of course you want to count the infamous "When it's done" as a release date, in which case yes.  :)


Go check out my last finger entry for some cool rock lyrics!
	
    