Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
2:30 PM 4/21/98


Work Stuff:

1) I tried turning on the Live Cam camcorder again, and it worked.  This stupid thing is problematic at best, and we really need to replace it if this is going to be reliable.  It's currently pointing out the front window of one of the Duke offices.   If it holds up, I'm gonna try turning it around to see what it can see inside the Duke offices.

2) My new idea for the Virtual Tour is turning out to be a bit more problematic than I was expecting.  I'm hoping I can get moving on this again shortly.

3) I'm curious..  Is there anyone else out there who owns a Scared Stiff pinball machine?  That's what we have at the office, and was wondering if anyone else does.  Email me if you do.  


Personal Stuff:

1) Someone asked me where I get the movie posters I have on my walls in the office.  There's a really great movie poster site at http://www.movieposters.net that is really really good.  Fast service, and never any problems with 'em.  Check 'em out.

2) I am definitely in the minority on this one.  I'm the only person here who things that Good Will Hunting is a steaming pile of...   Other than Robin Williams (who WAS brilliant and deserved his Oscar), I didn't find anything at all entertaining in this movie.  Minnie Driver for Best Supporting?  She was on screen what, 10 minutes?  She was much better in Grosse Point Blank.  Of course, she was lead there, but still.  She didn't deserve it here.

3) If you're a fan of Red Dwarf, you might be interested to know that the remastered Red Dwarfs are starting to air here in the states this spring.  If you didn't know about it, they did to Series 1-6 of Red Dwarf what George Lucas did for Star Wars last year.  Beefed up the Special Effects and whatnot.  From what I can read, they're getting very mixed reviews, but I'll still check 'em out when they air.

4) Speaking of British Comedy, I'm a big fan of Chef!, and I do a site for that show.  If you like that show, check out http://www.metronet.com/~apogee/chef/.

5) Applesauce tastes better when you don't spill it on your shirt.  :)

6) You probably know this by now if you pay attention to music news, but Cozy Powell died two weeks ago.  I worked with him in doing his web site at http://www.cozypowell.com, and I got the word that he died.  Head over there and check out the tribute I put online for him.
	
    