Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
10:43 AM 4/24/98


Work Stuff:

1) Managed to get moving again on the updated Virtual Tour.  It's nothing like what we did before on the tour.  You're gonna love this.   I showed several people around here what I'm doing, and they loved it.  I think you will, too.  :)

2) Thanks to the 50 million people who Emailed me and told me about Kai's PowerGoo software in regards to my Conan O'Brien remark.  Sad thing is that I already had this software.  :)

3) I went a bit mad with the digital camera last night.  Details later on our web site.



Personal Stuff:

1) On Sunday, I'll have been married a year and a half.

2) I'm gonna geek out here for a second.  Tonight on CBS is the return of a TV show that I watched RELIGIOUSLY for 12 years (the show was on for 13 - I didn't watch the first year).  Never missed it.  EVER.  Tonight is "War of the Ewings".  I am such a huge Dallas fan, it's disgusting.  Probably liked it even more than Star Trek.  If there's anyone else who's a Dallas fan, go to this site.  It's the best Dallas related web site I've found.
 http://www.Dallas.ndirect.co.uk/

3) CD's I'm listening to: (I haven't done this in awhile)

   Tony Martin: Back Where I Belong
   Iron Maiden: Virtual XI
   Joe Satriani: Crystal Planet
   Rainbow: The Very Best Of

4) This is really directed to someone local.  Do any of you have the ability to convert PAL videos to NTSC?  If so, please let me know.


Levelord Stuff:

From OneThumb's plan..

>> Being so in-tune with the Force, I knew instantly that our levelord had missed a crucial link on Norton's front page... a link that lead straight to Norton's own HIPDM1 strategy guide, the very guide levelord had been searching for. <<

Don, he's old.  What do you expect?  ;)

Seriously, if anyone wants to play the "Levelord Drinking Game", all you need to do is this.  Take him out to dinner, and every time he looks at a waitress, you have to take a drink.  Take two drinks if he makes a remark about how old he is, or how young they are.  Take THREE drinks if he goes "Mmm-mmm-mmm" when commenting about them.

Just so I don't totally rag on Rich, it's cool you're still off the smokes, dude.  That makes two people I know well who have kicked it lately (Lee Jackson being the other).  I smoked in High School, but quit the night of my senior prom, and haven't smoked since then (Gack, that was June 1983).


Miscelleanous Stuff:

1) Fnord.
	
    