Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
2:38 PM 5/8/98




Work Stuff:

1) Been playing the Monster Truck II demo the last couple of days.  If you liked the first one, you're gonna love this.

2) Changed the Camera Captining Contest on our web site.  I did pick a winner for the last contest, but I'm having some problems posting files this afternoon.  That might not get there until Monday or so.



Totally Self-indulgent personal stuff:

1) This probably won't interest very many people, but I wanted to relay this story anyways. My wife and I have season tickets for the TX Rangers, and something happened last night which I've been wishing for since I started going to games about 26 years ago.

I finally GOT A BALL!   It was in the 6th inning, and it was Manny Ramirez off the bat of Aaron Sele.   I had left the seat to go use the bathroom and get a pretzel/Coke.  I came back to the seat a different way, since I just felt like it.  When I was coming out of the tunnel I saw the ball bounce in front of the tunnel, but since it hit cement, I figured it would bounce back upstairs, or somewhere else.   After it bounced, I totally lost track of it.   Then I saw this one guy coming towards me, and then I turned around and looked behind me, and it's rolling on the ground about 2 feet behind me.   I bent over and picked it up, and then put it in my pocket.  The guy who was coming towards me gave me what I thought was a bad look, and then starting going "Damn Damn Damn!".   I got back to my seat, and announced "Man, I picked the right time to walk back to my seat in a different tunnel", and took the ball out of my pocket.  My wife went "Wow" to which I went "Yup,  I got the ball".  At which point, everyone in a two row circle around where  I sat turned around and wanted to check out the ball.

It was probably one of the best moments ever in all the years I've been going to baseball games.  I got a ball.   I know it might not seem like such a big deal to some people, but I've been going since I was 6 (I'm 32 now), and of all the hundreds of games I've gone to, and all the thousands of foul balls, I finally got one.  Yay me!  :)

2) This is going to be a REALLY strange request, but I have a personal reason for looking for this.   Is there anyone who happens to have a copy of the Bonanza Christmas album?   The thing with Lorne Greene, Michael Landon, et al?  If so, contact me.


This plan update brought to you by the number 2 and the letter J.