Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



1:33 PM 5/15/98

Work Stuff:

1) I put a cool new feature on our web site today.  If I'm not mistaken, we're the first people to do this.  360 degree interactive screen shots.  The first is for Prey.  It requires the use of a plugin.  Go to our web site and check it out.  It's cool, and I have plans to expand this shortly.

2) As mentioned in Markus Maki's .plan file, I'm gonna be handling the Max Payne site.  We've secured www.maxpayne.com for this, and it should be online shortly.  We also have http://www.dukenukem.com, but we don't have anything online there yet.


Misc Stuff:

1) I went and saw Van Halen last night.  Was loud! (Of course).  To those who think Gary Cherone can't cut it... WRONG!  The dude was awesome.  I loved the gig.   The set list is here, if you want to see what they played: http://www.van-halen.com/51498_set.html.   One cool thing is that in the middle of the set, Gary Cherone said something like "We're glad you could come out here tonight and didn't stay at home and watch some stupid sitcom".

2) Normally I don't get off on live albums, because you've heard the same songs over and over again, but I'm listening to Dio's "Last in Live", and it is one of the better live metal albums I've bought over the years.  Oddly enough one of my other favs is Sabbath's Live Evil, which Dio sings on, too.  :)

3) I tried those new "Wow" potato chips (those Olean things).  They didn't taste bad, but they definitely don't taste the same.

4) I _did not_ like Deep Impact.  The special effects that make up the commercial ads you see are over in less than a minute, it seems.  The ads show most of the sfx in the thing.  That's OK, I'm not tied into SFX for enjoying a movie, but they spent too much time on some interpersonal relationships when you want to say "Why are they wasting screen time on this?" or "Who cares?".  I like Morgan Freeman, but it seemed like he sleepwalked through this role.  A major disappointment.

5) Speaking of Senfield's last show, I have one word for it.  CRAP.


"The world is full of kings and queens who blind your eyes and steal your dreams.  It's Heaven & Hell"
 -- Black Sabbath, Heaven & Hell 1980