Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



3:02 PM 5/20/98
(I added a #4 to the Misc Stuff section for those that read this entry earlier and updated the CD's I'm listening to)


Work Stuff:

1) I now have the ability to do avi files for us (finally).  We hope to use this for previews of our upcoming games in the future.  More on this later.

2) I've been getting a _ton_ of positive feedback on my 360 degree screenshot I posted to our site late last week.   I'm going to be doing this in the future for other games, as well as expanding it to have better quality shots.

3) Work on the Virtual Tour has begun again in earnest.  I hope to have it online shortly after E3 (I don't think I'm gonna be able to get it all done and online and tested before E3).   If you've seen the 360 degree screenshot, you have an idea of what I'm doing with the new Virtual Tour.  :)



Misc Stuff:

1) If there's anyone out there who uses Publisher98 and likes to score baseball games, I did up something to save some money.  I got tired of giving the Rangers $3 just so I could score the game, so I came up with a Pub98 scorecard template.  If you'd like to download it, you can get it here: http://www.geocities.com/Heartland/3674/txscrcrd.zip.

2) I don't watch either Murphy Brown or Senfield, but I watched both final epsidoes.  The Murphy Brown one was FAR FAR funnier than the Seinfeld piece of crap.  There was an absolutely hysterical line in the Brown finale where her kid asks her after making a phone call...  "Hey Mommy, did you know you could call anywhere on Sunday for a dime a minute?"  Damn funny, I thought.

3) Star Trek: Voyager Season Finale is tonight.  Looks to be quite good.

4) Saw today that the US Government has now posted details of the redesigned $20 bill to complement the already existing new $100's and $50's.  Check out the report on ABC News' Web site at: http://www.abcnews.com/sections/us/DailyNews/twenty052098.html.



CD's I'm Listening To:

1) Queensryche - Operation: LiveCrime (one of my 5 "Desert Island" albums)

2) Extreme - III Sides to Every Story

3) Michael Jackson - History

4) Queensryche - Hear in the Now Frontier

5) Yes - The Very Best of Yes


"Religion and sex are power plays, maniuplating people for the money they pay.
 Selling Sex, Selling God, the numbers look the same on the credit card."

- Queensryche - Spreading the Disease: Operation Mindcrime 1988