Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



3:14 PM 6/8/98

I haven't updated my .plan file in awhile, so I figured it's time.  I more than enjoyed E3, but for some reason, I didn't feel like writing a whole lot about my thoughts on the show, so I'm just gonna mention random thoughts about it.


Work Stuff:
-----------

1) Just in case you missed the announcement before E3, the Official Max Payne Site is now up and running at http://www.maxpayne.com.



E3 Stuff:
---------

1) This was the first year I've ever gone to an E3 show, and I don't quite know what to say about it.  It was huge, it was cool, it was loud, and it was definitely SENSORY OVERLOAD.  It's a lot of fun if you get the chance to go.  However, take comfortable shoes.  :)

2) I've gotten quite a lot of comments about my "Booth Babe" photos.  Yes, that was my job at E3.  Take pictures of the Booth Babes.  Tough job, eh?  Yes, I'm married still after taking these pics.  :)

3) I think I'm the only person in the industry not to go to the strip joints during the night hours.  I was accused of "Staying in my hotel room the whole time and calling Lynn (my wife)".  Well, it wasn't _all_ the time, guys.  :)

4) I met Kordell Stewart (QB - Pittsburgh Steelers) at E3.   I know, no big deal, but my wife is a major Steeler fan, and I had to get her an autograph.  In fact, he was really cool about it.  When it was my turn in line, Kordell said "Hello, who is this for?"  I said "Actually, it's for my wife; she's a huge Steeler fan, has had season tickets for like 20 years", and then Kordell cut me off and said "and she's gonna kick your ass if you don't get my autograph.".  It was cool, he was like a real person.

5) (Obligatory E3 remark): It was cool meeting a lot of people whom I've never met before, and hooking up with old friends whom I did know.  Hope to see all of you next year!  (While I'm attacking the cliche, it is genuine).

6) Regarding my "Booth Babe" thing, what the Star Trek people need to do next E3 is to have Jeri Ryan there to promote it.  Or hey, I know GT has this Deep Space Nine related game going.  Get some of the Dabo girls from DS9 there.  It'll get attention.  :)



Misc Stuff:
-----------

1) I saw "The Truman Show" over the weekend.  First, it was pretty good, but when I left it, I was thinking "That's it?"  This doesn't reveal anything for those who haven't seen it, but there was a bit in the last 60 seconds of the film that they showed, and then it ended.  I find it hard to believe they'd "start" a thread that late in the movie and ignore it.  I refer to the woman who was watching him on TV in the last scene (not the women at the bar, but the one woman who was alone watching him).  Man, that really puzzled me.

2) Responding to Redwood's remark about car battery problems:  >> Car battery problems bite. :( <<

It's worse when you're driving the dead battery to the store to get your core charge back, and it falls over spilling battery acid on your car's carpet, eating some of it away after the car is only 3 months old.  :(

3) Anyone out there have a Pilot III?  If so, drop me a line, I have a couple of questions for you (especially if you're one of the people who has used 3Com's upgrade kit to upgrade to Pilot III from one of the older units).

4) I careth not about the NBA finals.  I think basketball is the crappiest of the professional sports.  Only once did I ever go to a game, that was in Jordan's rookie year when I got to sit courtside as a freebie for the company I was working for at the time.  That was cool, but I've never watched a game for more than about 30 seconds since then.

5) There is no #5, I can't think of anything more to say.


CD's I'm Listening To:
----------------------

Geezer - Black Science (I think this is the best metal album from 1997)
Page/Plant - Walking into Clarksdale (I was disappointed - the album bores me)
Deep Purple - Abandon (Very bluesy - *NEW* Deep Purple)
KMFDM - "New Album" (Thanks to the KMFDM guys for getting us some comps!)
Van Halen 3 - (I really like this - it's grown a LOT on me)
The Best of Sting: 1984-1994