Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



6:06 PM 6/17/98


Work Stuff:

1) Rant #1: The Duke Forever / Unreal announcement certainly took the net by storm yesterday, didn't it?   Just one comment folks.  We licensed the Unreal ENGINE.  Not the game.  There's a world of difference.   For all the people running around going Unreal Sucks, Unreal Sucks! (It doesn't, BTW) you need to learn the difference between what a game engine is and a game is.  If you want to think Unreal sucks, that's your right of course, but don't damn Duke Nukem because you don't know the difference between a game and a game engine.  It might help if companies start calling game engines different names than the games themselves.  Take a moment to learn facts before you shag us or Epic off on things.  Yeesh!


Misc Stuff:

1) If you're gonna do news stories, make sure they're real.

2) If you're a Netscape user, go check out this:  http://home.netscape.com/communicator/v4.5/index.html?cp=nws06flh1.  They're about to release v4.5 of Communicator, and it has some pretty cool new features, you can read up on it here.   It has some cool stuff in there if you use a Pilot.

3) Anyone have any good recommendations for DVD players (preferably around $500 or so)?  My wife and I are looking to get one later this year, and was wondering what people thought of the ones they have.

4) Rant #2: Am I the only one who gets pissed off at all the HTML crap in .plan files?  It really fucks things up when you read plans on places like Quakefinger, or other archive places.  A link is no big deal (although it would be nicer if the archive sites picked up on these and make 'em links automatically - HINT HINT), or a single picture (like the NoDIVX graphic here and in other's plans), but all the gibberish is annoying.  Epsecially if you don't code HTML right!  Maybe it's just me.  I don't know.....  Fnord.

5) Jim Cameron to Film in Space?  http://us.imdb.com/StudioBrief/1998/19980616.html#1.

6) Thanks to everyone who replied to me about my quest for the "Uno" game.  I've found one that wasn't too bad (most of the links were to the same two or three pieces of software), but the rest bit.  If they'd come out with an OFFICIAL version, then I'd be a real happy camper.

7) Mr. Showbiz (http://www.mrshowbiz.com) has a very silly poll online today.  "Whose naked ass would you rather see on the big screen?"  The two choices are 1) Mulder's  2) Scully's.   :)


This plan update has been brought to you by the letter I and the number 2.