Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



1:09 PM 6/24/98

Misc Stuff:

The first one was from my last plan update, but it was so cool that I'm repeating it.  If you liked Star Trek Classic, you MUST SEE THIS!!

1) I don't know how new this is, but I just ran into this over the weekend.  There's a company called Digital Stream that is/was (I'm not 100% sure of the status here, actually) that was talking to Paramount about updating the special effects of the Star Trek Classic episodes.   If you go visit their web site, they have some still images, and two mpg samples from the episode "The Doomsday Machine" that show off a sample of their work mixed in with the existing footage.  It actually looks COOL!  One of the problems with the original show over time is that the sfx are downright hokey.  I love Trek Classic, and watched it from very young childhood - I know them well.  

I was 1 when the show started, and my father tells me that was mom's Bridge night, so he got to babysit me and put me in a playpen while Star Trek and Wild, Wild, West were on.  :)

Anyways, go to their site at http://www.digistream.com and check out the samples.  I rather like these (even though the Doomsday Machine itself looks a little too "pink"), and would absolutely love for them to actually get a contract to do these.  


2) There's a pretty cool article over on Mr. Showbiz about the "Top 10 Post-Apocalyptic Movies of all Time".  I've seen 5 of the 10 listed here (Terminator, T2, Road Warrior, Mad Max, & Escape from New York).  They also list 12 Monkeys which I keep meaning to watch, but haven't as of yet.  Three of the remaining four I've never even seen (Delicatessen, On the Beach, & A Boy and his Dog), much less even heard of.   It's a pretty cool article, go check it out at http://www.mrshowbiz.com/reviews/moviereviews/criticspicks/76.html.  

Escape from New York is one of my all time favourite movies, PERIOD.  What really annoyed me when they released the "Director's Cut" a few years back was that there really wasn't anything new as such.  The "Snake robs the bank" scenes were talked over by Carpenter, and they were all in an interview at the beginning of the flick, they weren't intermixed into the movie.   I'm hoping that if this is ever put on DVD (is it there?) that the full extra scenes are restored (Is there anyone who has a connection to John Carpenter out there reading this?  Hello?)!


3) As people who have been reading my plan file might know, I'm researching DVD players in prep for buying one shortly.  Anyways, I found a cool article over on DVD Express about this kind of stuff.  Check it out at: http://www.dvdexpress.com/consumer/feature-presentation.asp.


CD's I'm listening to:

1) Van Halen - 3
2) Deep Purple - Abandon
3) Kenny Wayne Sheperd Band - Trouble Is...
4) Steve Vai - Passion & Warfare
	
    