Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------


12:36 PM 6/30/98

Added in later: OK, I now know the 5th Element language was real.  Please stop Emailing me and telling me that.  I've gotten about 100 Emails telling me about it since I asked that.  :)

OK, here's my special "TC is gonna hate these" list of CD's I'm listening to:  :)

1) Michael Jackson - Dangerous
2) The Bangles - Greatest Hits
3) Huey Lewis - Greatest Hits
4) Yanni - Greatest Hits
5) Barry White - The Icon is Love
6) DJ Jazzy Jeff & Fresh Prince - He's the DJ, I'm the Rapper
7) Billy Joel - Greatest Hits Vol 3

And yes, I actually own all these.  Fnord.



Work Stuff:

1) I thought of this today when I was taking a shower (I don't know why I thought that, and I don't know why I'm telling anyone that), but I had a thought about Balls of Steel and Windows98.   If you install Windows98, it comes with DirectX built into it.  When you install Balls of Steel, it prompts you if you want to install DirectX v5.0.  Well, if you have Windows98 on your machine, and then go to install Balls of Steel, you should say "NO" to the install DirectX 5.0 prompt that comes up after all the files are copied over.   

I haven't actually tried it to see if the DirectX install is intelligent enough to know not to install if you attempt to "downgrade", but my recommendation is that you should say *NO* to the DirectX install prompt in the Balls of Steel CD install if you have Win98 on your machine at the time you go to install it.

2) Speaking of Windows98, does anyone know why the built in Win98 MPG player plays them at warp speed on my machine?  Any way to slow it down (while still using the same player).  That's one thing I *LIKE* about Windows - the standard interface, I'd rather not install something else just for MPG's.

Other Stuff:

1) Caught that they started pre-production work on Jurassic Park III to be in the theatres in 2000.  Here's a news story about it: http://dailynews.yahoo.com/headlines/entertainment/story.html?s=z/reuters/980630/entertainment/stories/film_jurassicpark_2.html.

2) There's a pretty cool picture here from the new Star Wars movie.  Doesn't give anything away, it's just a promo picture.  However, I *VERY* much like the look they've given to Liam Neeson.

3) Did anyone happen to tape the final episode of a series called "Life Goes On"?  If so, drop me a line.

4) Finally saw "The Fifth Element" over the weekend.  Lynn & I went to Joe Ske's for dinner on Sunday (it was his birthday), and we watched that.  It was also my first taste of DVD-Dom.  Oh man, I want one even more now!   Anyways, about the movie.. It was VERY colourful, and I rather liked it.  One thing about Milla Jovovich, though.  Does anyone know if that language she was speaking before she learned English was a real language?  It certainly didn't sound like gibberish.

Also, I have a problem with her.  It's the typecast thing.  She was in an episode of Married with Children some years ago, and I can't get that role out of my head.  Remember the episode where the Bundy's had a French foreign exchange student stay with them and she stole all of Kelly's boyfriends?  Well, that was Milla. :)  It's probably unfair to her as an actress, but I can't get that out of my head.  Here's a couple of shots of that I found:

http://ehoffman.simplenet.com/images/milla/mwc1.jpg
http://ehoffman.simplenet.com/images/milla/mwc2.jpg

5) What's with people and typing this crap in their msgs to MaKe The StuFF l00k liKe ThI$?  Especially the damn zeroes in there.  Cripes, speak English!

6) Paul, I want #2, but it has to be with my wife - I know she reads our plan files.  :)

7) I'm playing Duke Nukem 3D again.  I never actually finished the fourth episode, so I decided to install it again and play it and finish it correctly.  I had forgotten how much fun this game actually is - it's been awhile since I've played it.

8) Two other games I'm playing a lot at the moment are Hardball 6 and Jack Nicklaus 5.

9) This "Microsoft doesn't own the Internet Explorer" name is quite amusing.  Check it out here.

10) This is probably the longest such list of these things I've done.  Are you bored yet?  :)


This .plan update has been brought to you by the number 9 and the letter K.