Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



4:22 PM 7/6/98

Work Stuff:

1) As you know, our Live Cam has been down for some time.  The camera we were using is dead, and we need a replacement.  As such, I would like to hear your ideas on replacement hardware.  What I am looking for is something that doesn't have to be plugged into a computer to work, and has an out jack (RCA cable) that can be hooked into the video transmitter I use which transmits the signal from the camera back to my office for processing for the web.

Any ideas folks?

2) Here's a site you should know about: http://www.spa.org/piracy/ireport.htm.  That's a site where you can report web sites with illegal software available for download.

3) For some reason, the Internic has our dukenukem.com domain on hold.  I don't know why.  I'm trying to find out.


Misc Stuff:

1) Did anyone happen to tape the final episode of a series called "Life Goes On"?  If so, drop me a line.

2) Was at the TX Ranger game on July 4th.  Wouldn't you know it?  We haven't had any rain since like the middle of May, and what happens?  Downpour after the first inning of the game.  Turned out to be a three and a half hour rain delay!!  We got to watch other games on the Jumbotron during the delay (got to see my home town team the Phillies for about 5 innings win it in the bottom of the 9th).  Anyway, the game finally got going again about 11:30 (2nd inning) - they showed the fireworks during the rain delay, as it would have been too late to do 'em after the game.  Anyway, it might very well have been the BEST fireworks display I have ever seen.  I don't know if anyone involved with it would be reading this (probably not), but if you were, it was an awesome job, guys!  (Game finally ended around 1:45AM or so).

3) I'm not promoting or pushing anything, but I found this article interesting.



CD's I'm listening to (Noise Day):

1) Anthrax - The Sound of White Noise (forgot how good this was)
2) Geezer - Black Science
3) Black Sabbath - The Sabbath Stones (Best of 1983-1995)
4) Black Sabbath - Between Heaven & Hell (Best of 1970-1983)


This .plan update has been brought to you by the number 0 and the letter Q.
	
    