Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



4:10 PM 7/7/98

Work Stuff:

1) Here's a site you should know about: http://www.spa.org/piracy/ireport.htm.  That's a site where you can report web sites with illegal software available for download.



Misc Stuff:

1) If there's anyone out there who reads Star Trek books, check this out.  There's a book out there called "The Joy of Trek : How to Enhance Your Relationship With a Star Trek Fan" written by Samuel Ramer.  It's a lot of fun, it takes a look at Star Trek over the years with the perspective of someone who doesn't know very much about the show at all.

I picked it up some time ago, but just now am getting around to reading it.  It's damn funny, and is a really great read for die Trek Trekfen (unless you're one of the people who were offended by Bill Shatner's SNL "Get a Life" bit some years ago - in which case you probably don't have a sense of humour; don't bother).

Anyways, Paramount has sued to halt distribution of this book, which is a shame.  It's damn funny, and should be checked out by anyone who loves Trek.  I laughed out loud MANY MANY times reading this book, and I'm only about 1/4 into it.  :)

I urge you to get this book while you can if you read Trek books.  It's one of the most original and funny books to come out in the history of Trek books (which is probably why it was squashed by Paramount; they didn't think of it and aren't getting any $ from it):

If you'd like to check out the book yourself and buy it (get it before you can't), check out this link to the book on Amazon.com:
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=0806519193/chefinternetA.

Here's the official stuff from the distributor about the book:

Here in a funny and easy-to-read format is everything that those unfamiliar with the Star Trek universe need to know to be brought up to warp speed with their significant Trekking other. In addition to learning about special episodes, weird aliens, and memorable characters, readers will discover "Really Cool Things to Say to Impress a Trekker."



CD's I'm listening to (Noise Day #2):

1) Black Sabbath - The Sabbath Stones (Best of 1983-1995)
2) Black Sabbath - Between Heaven & Hell (Best of 1970-1983)


This .plan update has been brought to you by the number 4 and the letter F.
	
    