Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



11:32 AM 7/21/98

Work Stuff:

1) This is more or less a copy of a news story on our site with some extra bits about the story.

The other day I was going through some videotapes of mine, and found this little tidbit of Apogee history.   It's a 2.5 minute long interview with Scott Miller & George Broussard done in the summer of 1992.  It aired back home in Philadelphia in November of 1992 on the NBR show that is on PBS.  It was a report on Apogee (and id Software) and how we were changing the face of computer gaming.

This interview was done in the post Wolfenstein 3D hysteria (as Wolfenstein is all over this video), and also has an interview with John Romero (now of Ion Storm).  In addition to Scott, George, & John, you can also see some others in the background (but don't talk) - our own Steve Blackburn, as well as Jay Wilbur, John Carmack, Adrian Carmack, and I believe Kevin Cloud of id Software.

You can download this from our web site (go there and check out the news story and the download link). Sorry about the fuzzy quality of the tape, but this was an old videotape, close to 10 years old, and this was taped in 1992.   This was stuck in between a few episodes of Married With Children I also had on the same tape (I have every MWC episode from all 11 years of the show on tape, except for some in the final season which I missed).

What was really weird was that the day before I was to leave Philly for Dallas in December 1992, a good friend of mine back home (Jim Parfitt) had called me and said "Isn't the name of that company you're going to called Apogee?"  I said yes, and he told me that he had just accidentally taped some PBS stuff, and it had a news report on the people I was to work for.  What's really weird is that I was hired over the phone from Philadelphia.  I had no idea what Scott & George looked like, nor did they know what I looked like.   Scott Miller talked to me on the phone for like three hours the day I was hired about non industry stuff like Football.  That video was fortunate, as I had no idea whom I was looking for at DFW airport the day I moved to Texas and Scott picked me up.  :)


2) There's an article in the Dallas Morning News today about the Levelord.   It talks about him, Ritual, his time here at 3D Realms, and other stuff.  Go check it out at  http://www.dallasnews.com/technology-nf/techbiz710.htm.  Oh and Rich...  It's Wolfenstein 3D, not Castle Wolfenstein.  Arrrgh!  :)



Misc Stuff:

1) Unfortunately, the heat wave down here hasn't gotten any better.  Two more people died here yesterday, bringing the total to 22.  It's a damn shame.  It's mostly older folks, which sucks, since it's harder for them to get comfortable, especially if they're poor and can't afford air conditioning.  If you live in this area, and know someone like this, check on them!  Also, if you can afford it, you should donate a fan to one of the organizations set up in this area for such things.  It's been over 100 degrees here for 15 straight days, and there were a lot more than just these 15.  

2) I got a new movie poster for my office.  One for "The Shawshank Redepmtion".  Replaced Goldeneye.

3) Oh man, the first pre-season football game is this month.  I can't wait!  I love football!!


CD's I'm listening to:

1) Yngwie Malmsteen - Facing the Animal
2) Elton John's Greatest Hits Vol II
3) Santana's Greatest Hits
4) Black Sabbath - The Sabbath Stones
	
    