Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



6:03 PM 7/28/98

Work Stuff:

1) Hmm...  I'm walking around with two eyes.  I wonder if I can charge Lucasarts advertising fees because of this?

2) Congrats to the Ritual dudes.  Played Sin today, had a good time.  Ultimately, that's what it's all about, I s'pose, innit?  That's one of the reasons I don't much read Usenet anymore.  Too many people bitching, and too few people enjoying anything anymore.  :)

About Sin...  I mentioned this to the Ritual guys a long time ago when I first heard out the name of the character is John Blade.   There's an old Black Sabbath song called "Johnny Blade" on their 1978 album, "Never Say Die".  The Lyrics for it are kinda interesting, too.  They say the game wasn't based off the song, tho.  :)

Johnny Blade:

Tortured and twisted, he walks the streets alone
People avoid him, they know the street's his own
Cold blade of silver, his eyes they burn so wild
Mean as a tiger, society's own child

Go the tiger, burn in hate
You know you have to, Johnny Blade
He's the meanest guy around his town
One look and he will cut you down
Johnny Blade, Johnny Blade

Life has no meaning, and Death's his only friend
Will fate surprise him, where will he meet his end?
He feels so bitter, yes he's so full of hate
To die in the gutter, I guess that's Johnny's fate

Rivals all across the land
He kills them with his knife in hand
He's the meanest guy around his town
One look and he will cut you down
Johnny Blade, Johnny Blade
Johnny Blade, Johnny Blade

Well you know that Johnny's a spider
And his web is the city at night
He's a victim of modern frustration
That's the reason he's so ready to fight

He's the one that should be afraid
What will happen to you, Johnny Blade?

Oh he knows his future's decided
And he ain't gonna change it, no way
He was born to die in the gutter
He'll keep fighting `till the end of his days

Been alone all through his life
His only friend is a switchblade knife
He's the one who should be afraid
What will happen to you, Johnny Blade?

You fool the people
Who's fooling who?
It's time to listen
Who's fool are you?

(Shameless plug for myself - I run a Black Sabbath site at http://www.black-sabbath.com)


CD's I'm listening to:

1) Brian Setzer Orchestra - Dirty Boogie
2) Anthrax - Volume 8 The Threat is Real
3) Van Halen III (Sorry TC, I'm stuck on it)
4) Black Sabbath - Never Say Die


I have another short announcement to make..

I AM TIRED OF THE FUCKING HEAT DOWN HERE!!!!   ARRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHH!!!!!!

Make it go away.  Please!!