Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------




2:24 PM 8/12/98

Work Stuff:

1) Thanks to everyone who responded to my jsp thing.  What's funny is that I had about 6 or 7 different things it was.  I believe it to be a MS Publisher 2.0 file.

2) Sorry to see Chris Day go over at 3D Portal.  He was a great news guy.  See ya Chris, and good like in that "real life" endeavor.  :)


Other Stuff:

1) STAR WARS NEWS:  (there is no spoiler stuff here, it's just a release date)
Twentieth Century Fox has set May 21, 1999 for the opening of the first of the Star Wars (1977) "prequels," currently titled Episode 1. In an announcement appearing on the Star Wars Web site, Lucasfilm said that "Fox which is distributing the film internationally will not set the film for widest possible release but will bring the film to theaters with the emphasis on quality." Presumably, the intention is to allow the film to be exhibited only on very large screens equipped with THX sound systems (or at least their equivalent). In a statement appearing on the Web site, George Lucas commented, "I'm not trying to break any records. I'm interested in quality presentation and a positive group experience for everyone who comes to see this film. It's about sight and sound and the movie itself." Separately, the company said that it has rounded up the cast and crew of the film for a week of pick-up shots at Leavesdon Studios in England this week.  (This comes from the IMDB News site at http://us.imdb.com/StudioBrief/1998/19980811.html)

2) "The Magic Hour" was cancelled.  Oh damn.  

3) In case anyone missed it. the last entry was pure sarcasm.  He lasted just marginally longer than Chevy Chase's crappy bad talk show.  Me thinks the Roseanne talk show for this fall will suck wind, too.

4) There's a good article about Microsoft Office 2000 over here: http://www.infoworld.com/cgi-bin/displayStory.pl?980810.ehoffice.htm.  The Microsoft schpiel on Office2000 is available here: http://www.microsoft.com/office/2000/.

5) Is there anyone out there who plays Hardball 6?  If so, drop me a line.  I'd like to chat with you about it.


CD's I'm listening to:

1) Madonna - Ray of Light
2) Black Sabbath - Born Again
3) Black Sabbath - Mob Rules


11:59 AM 8/11/98

Work Stuff:

1) Does anyone know what a .jsp file is?  I've got one sitting in my "My Documents" folder, and I have no clue what it is.  I asked around here, and no one knew either.  

2) Just heard about Redwood.  Hope all goes well on the recovery side, dude...


Misc Stuff:

1) Do you play Monopoly?  Well, I found out they're planning on adding a new piece to the game that you can play as.  It's the first time since 1950 they've done that.  Go check out http://www.monopoly.com for info on the three choices - they're putting it to a public vote.

2) This is damn funny.  If you've ever worked in Tech Support, or just want a laugh, you owe it to yourself to go here: http://www.geocities.com/Yosemite/2968/cuphold.htm.

3) Is there anyone out there with old Atari 2600 cartridges collecting dust?  If so, drop me a line.

4) I read in Cinescape this weekend that Paramount plans to release the second Beavis & Butthead movie at the exact same time as the new Star Wars movie (Memorial Day 1999).  :)

5) Saw on Redwood's that Fox has announced open DVD Support.  Yay!  Also, Paramount has announced their first DVD titles to be released October 6th.  Listed FIRST on their announcement list is Star Trek: First Contact.  If you want to see what else they are planning, check out the link here: http://www.thedigitalbits.com/paramount.html.


CD's I'm listening to:

1) Anthrax - Vol 8: The Threat is Real
2) Pink Floyd - Wish You Were Here
3) Brian Setzer - Dirty Boogie
4) Iron Maiden - Virtual XI