Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------




11:57 AM 10/20/98

Personal Stuff: (No one will probably give a damn about these things, but I wanted to mention them anyway)

1) Today, the personal stuff comes before work stuff because today is a big ego trip day for me.  :)   As you may or may not know, Black Sabbath's new album is out today.  It's a double live album called Reunion, and it's available now, or from here: http://www.black-sabbath.com.  Anyways, if you buy it, and go look at the liner notes, check out the "Thank you's" from Bill Ward.   Yup, my name is in there.   It's been a childhood dream of mine to get my name in my fav band's album, and I finally did it.  I started listening to Black Sabbath in 1981, and now in 1998, I finally did it, thanks to Mr. Bill Ward.  :)

2) Anyone from Pittsburgh familiar with the Primanti Bros Sandwich?  Man, I had two of these when I was in Pittsburgh recently, and I fell in love with these.  The most annoying thing was that you can't get them out of Pittsburgh.  This might very well be the best sandwich I've ever eaten in my lifetime - bar nothing.   I had one at their Strip location, and one at Three Rivers Stadium (at a Pirates game).  What surprised me was the one at the Pirates game was still good!  Usually ballpark food pales in comparison to the real thing, but this was still good!  It wasn't as good as the freshly made one from the Strip location of course, but it was still damn great!


Work Stuff:

1) I've been a Netscape fan since v0.somethingorother, and v4.5 is out.  So far as the web browser goes, mail, and all that, I love it over MSIE with one exception.  Their Java VM.  Man, is this thing slow.  I'm using Java for the updated Virtual Tour, and I have to say the Java VM in MSIE v4.01 kicks the crap out Netscape insofar as speed goes.  I've found that the virutal tour runs much smoother in Microsoft's JavaVM as opposed to Netscape's.  It still works fine in Netscape, but things tend to go faster in MSIE.

I heard a rumour that for Netscape v5, you're going to be allowed to pick your own JavaVM.  I certainly hope so, I'd love to tell it to use Microsoft's Java.




CD's I'm listening to:

Black Sabbath - Reunion!   Go buy the thing.  You can, off my Black Sabbath site, which is listed above.
	
    