Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



2:47 PM 12/3/98

1) Anyone manage to get that 18 hour PBS special on Baseball from a few years ago on tape?  If so, drop me a line.

2) Anyone out there playing Brunswick Pro Circuit Bowling (for the PC) or Baseball Mogul 99 - specifically Baseball Mogul?  If so, drop me a line.  I seem to be the only person in the industry that is really into sports games - they're probably my fav type of game.

3) Amazon.com is having a totally awesome sale on DVD's right now.  Their Top 100 Sale CD's are 50% off, which is some insane pricing. They're also taking pre-orders on some things like Armageddon for only $14.99.  There are some really awesome deals on DVD's.  Head over to Amazon and check out their Top 100 DVD sale.  It's way cool.

Also, Best Buy Online has a sale on a lot of DVD's marked down to $9.99 and $11.99.  Check it out at http://www.bestbuy.com.

4) Thought of something interesting yesterday relating to Pro Sports teams.  Notice how virtually all of them (in the four major sports - Baseball, Football, Hockey, & Basketball) all end in the letter "S"?  Not the city name, but the name of the team itself.  I checked, and of the 116 Professional Sports teams in existance right now, there are only EIGHT of them whose last letter isn't an "S".  

They are: MLB: White Sox, Red Sox.  NFL: None  NHL: Tampa Bay Lightning, Colorado Avalanche  NBA: Miami Heat, Orlando Magic, & Utah Jazz.   There actually is a new NHL team that starts next year (I think it's next year) called the Minnesota Wild that also fits this bill, but that would make it 9 out of 117.  Speaking of that, the "Wild" is probably the silliest pro Sports team name I've heard in awhile.  I lookd over at the list of the US Major League Soccer teams, and this trend is NOT the same there.  Of the 12 teams there, only TWO of them have an "S" as the last letter.  10 of the 12 have something else, which is very different than the four major sports.  The MLS teams have some bizarre team names too: Chicago Fire, Columbus Crew, Dallas Burn, Kansas City Wiz, Los Angeles Galaxy, Miami Fusion, New England Revolution, San Jose Clash, Tampa Bay Mutiny, Washington DC United.