Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



9:34 AM 12/14/98

1) Movie review time.. Saw Star Trek: Insurrection on Friday (ran into Jay Wilbur there, too).  To sum it up..  Was it as a good as First Contact? No. Was it bad? No. Was it a good looking movie? Yes. Was it fun? Yes. Would I see it again? Yes, most definitely.  If you're one of these picky people who have a limited opinion on what Star Trek or any other fiction can be, and like to pigenhole things into a corner (It sucks if it doesn't have Kirk & Spock - or it sucks if there isn't a space battle every 2 minutes) then you probably won't like it. It is fun, but for very different reasons than First Contact was.

The pre-movie hype was that it was going to be the best Next Gen movie.  That's wrong.  It's not the best Next Gen Movie (I think that's still First Contact), but it's still good. This feels a lot like a TV episode.  That's not bad, but you sort of expect "more" in a movie.  However, they said up front that after two movies of death, death, and more death, that they wanted one that was far more lighter than what they had just done.  And that's exactly what they delivered.  Still looks like the "Even numbered movies are better" thing is still in force, but number 9 did not suck.  It just was not that great.

2) The totally awesome Amazon.com DVD sale has changed slightly now.  It was the Top 100 DVD's for 50% off, but now it's just Top 10 DVD's for 50% off - Numbers 11-100 are still 30% off, which seems to be the going discount rate for DVD's around the web.  Head over to Amazon and check out their Top DVD sale.  It's way cool.

3) There's an even more awesome sale actually.  http://www.800.com.  They're giving away three DVD's for ONE DOLLAR.  Total.  It's a promotional thing to attract interest in themselves.  Their site is (not surprisingly) clogged beyond belief, though.  Still, if you can sit there for awhile and hit reload a million times, it's worth it.

4) Screw DIVX.  http://www.dvdresource.com/divx/

5) What happened to Web Dog?  I haven't gotten a response from their site or their server in about a week.


CD's I'm listening to:

1) Motley Crue - Motley Crue
2) The Best of John Mellencamp
3) Metallica - Garage, Inc.
	
    