Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



11:48 AM 1/19/99

Work Stuff:

1) Apparently Duke Nukem was mentioned by Dennis Miller on his show this past Friday.  No one here caught it that I'm aware of, so I'm wondering if anyone happens to have a copy of this on tape.  If you do, drop me a line.  Thanks.   I'm told it goes something like this:

He was talking about the Y2K problem and yadda, yadda, yadda. He said "If the computer geeks could just pull the heads away from designing the gory, blood splatter from Duke they might be able to ....." 


Non-Work Stuff:

1) DIVX for Audio?:  Picked this tidbit up over at DVD Resource (http://www.dvdresource.com).. 

DAVX...

Okay, those little MP3 audio files are the current rage, and they are also a way to unfairly pirate music over the Internet. So what model does the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) want to follow in an effort to recoup lost royalties? Wired News reports that the RIAA wants to encrypt the music with embedded purchase codes that dictate how many times you can play or copy the music without paying an additional fee. In other words, the RIAA is proposing a variant of the Divx model. Digital Audio Express. I told you so.

The link that he refers to is here: http://www.wired.com/news/news/culture/story/17340.html

2) Something I've been wanting to happen for about a decade is finally happening.  If you're a long time fan of the James Bond movie series, you've known that Desmond Llewellyn has been getting on for some time now.  It's cool that he's been all of them since 1963, but I think the time has come for him to retire.  Anyways, they cast an "assistant to Q" for the first time in the new 007 flick (The World is Not Enough).  Anwyways, this new assistant is "R", and the person they cast is John Cleese!  I've been saying forever that there's only one person who could do "Q" other than Desmond, and that's John Cleese!  He does the annoyed british man so well, it's amazing.  There's no word whether Cleese will take over for good after TWINE, but I sure hope he does.  Can't wait!  November 19, 1999 is when the new Bond opens.  Started filming January 11th.