Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



9:55 AM 2/19/99

Non Work Stuff:

1) Star Trek DVD news.  It comes from Bill Hunt over at The Digital Bits (http://www.thedigitalbits.com.  Make sure and check out his site - it's a damn good source of DVD news and happenings.  Here's some more of my DVD haunts..

DVD File - http://www.dvdfile.com
DVD Review - http://www.dvdreview.com
DVD Resource Page - http://www.dvdresource.com
DVD Express - http://www.dvdexpress.com
Netflix Rentals - http://www.netflix.com
DVD Price Search - http://www.dvdpricesearch.net

The Trek News:

Some terrific news for you Star Trek fans came my way yesterday. Paramount is preparing a real Trek DVD blowout for late May or early June. That's when the studio plans to release it's recent feature film Star Trek: Insurrection to DVD. But even more exciting, the studio will also release two DVDs of episodes of the original Star Trek TV series at the same time! The discs will include two episodes each, in the order that they were originally broadcast. And here's some even better news - the episodes will be the new Star Trek: Sci-Fi Channel Special Edition versions, and will include all the special introductions and cast interviews. If these two discs sell well, look for Paramount to begin releasing the entire series, a few episodes at a time.

The reason Paramount is able to do this, is that the original series episodes have all digitally-remastered specifically for the Sci-Fi Channel, making it easier to create high-quality DVDs of them. Episodes of Deep Space Nine and Voyager are all also digitally mastered, so they're likely to follow. But only the last couple seasons of Star Trek: The Next Generation were digitally mastered, so until the studio can go back and remaster them, TNG episodes will have to wait.
 
As for the other feature films, Star Trek V: The Final Frontier is expected on April 20th. Look for Star Trek III & II later in the summer, and Star Trek: The Motion Picture> in the fall. The reason for releasing the films on DVD in reverse order, is that the older the film is, the less likely it is to have a good master (specifically a fully-digital master), so more work needs to be done. I'm told that Star Trek: The Motion Picture will be the theatrical version (as will all of the others), however Paramount may come back in 2000 and revisit the entire series as Collector's Edition DVDs (likely with anamorphic widescreen, deleted scenes, commentaries, etc...).

2) Got this in my email today.  It's probably old, but I thought it was funny, so I'm putting it here.

News Release: January 4, 1999
Redmond, Washington

Bill Gates, Chairman and CEO of Microsoft Corporation, announced today that the latest version of their Windows operating system, Windows 2000 would be delayed until the second quarter of 1901. No reason was given.

CD's I'm listening to over the last couple of days:

1) Weird Al Yankovic - Off the Deep End
2) The Who - Who's Better, Who's Best
3) Queensryche - Hear in the Now Frontier
4) Van Halen - Greatest Hits & VH3
5) Kenny Wayne Shepard Band - Trouble Walkin'