Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------



10:42 AM 5/3/99

Work Stuff:

1) I'm about to begin today to move our web sites to a different server.  I'll be posting some info in my plan file (or possibly direct to 3D Portal/Blues/etc depending on whether my plan file is also affected) about this when I have some more to tell.

Keep an eye out.


Non-Work Stuff:

1) I was hitting some of my Star Trek Info sites last night, and saw a story that doesn't sound that good for one of the original cast members.  DeForrest Kelley is apparently rather ill, and doesn't appear to be doing good AT ALL right now.  Here's some text I saw (please keep in mind I am not writing this stuff)...  The info comes from here: http://www.greatlink.org.

"I have been in contact with several friends who know both De and Carolyn Kelley very well. One of them is a very long time friend of the woman who was the president of De's Official Fan Club and who still maintains very regular contact with De and Carolyn. She is the primary "source" for this info.....and considering her close friendship with De and his wife, I would call her a reliable source. She has been to the hospital several times to see De and his wife."

"De is currently in the hospital. He went in three weeks ago for surgery on his colon....again. If you recall, he suffered from a collapsed colon approximately ten years ago, and he had surgery to correct it at that time. Obviously it has re-occurred."

"De is in the same hospital as his wife Carolyn and they are currently in rooms right next to each other."

"Now for the "bad" news. De IS and has been being treated for emphezema and cancer. No doubt caused by his very heavy smoking for over 50 years. He has apparently had the emphezema for several years now.....the cancer was just diagnosed approximately 8 months ago. Due to these two conditions and their treatments....coupled with the recent surgery, and his age, De's weight has dropped to approximately 100 pounds. My source said the hospital won't release him because currently he is incapable of taking care of himself if released on his own."

"Please keep a good thought for De, as well as his wife, Carolyn. And remember them both in your prayers if you are so inclined to pray. And let's also honor their privacy by not drowning them with mail etc. at this time. I'm sure that they both know just how much the fans wish them well. It's just that they can't handle a huge load of mail at this time."