Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------


5:02 PM 5/14/99

1) Is there anyone reading this who is in Japan and is also into Black Sabbath?  If so, please drop me a line.  I have a question to ask.

2) The new web sites are having some more technical problems.  I thought it'd be corrected by now, but it hasn't been.  Hopefully early next week.

3) http://www.e3babes.com is still not up, but only because the Internic still hasn't processed the DNS name server change!  From what I'm told, the "booth babe" count at this year's E3 isn't as big as it was last year.  Why?  I'm not there.  If I go back for Babe2K, there had better be more!  :)


10:24 AM 5/7/99

Work Stuff:

1) The Web site move is going a little slower than anticipated, but is still in progress.  There's some freaky DNS stuff we need to work out in regards to our mail and our web site.  Details are forthcoming, along with a replacement IP address to use during the switch.

2) I've gotten a lot of mail in the last couple of months about the decision of 3D Realms not to attend this year's E3.  Furthermore, I received several emails from people asking what I was going to do in regards to "Booth Babe" shots.  Well, never fear.  Just because I'm not going to be at E3 doesn't mean I'm not covering it.  

I'd like to announce a new web site (it's not up yet, but it will be before E3 starts)..  http://www.e3babes.com.  It's something that Geoff Keighley from gameslice and I started talking about RIGHT AFTER last year's E3 con, and we've gone out and registred the domain name.  Details on what will be on the site will be there when it goes live, but in the meantime..   The short of it is that I will be collecting all E3 booth babe shots, and publishing them on the web site.  I intend to be the most comprehensive on this all important E3 convention issue.  To start things off, I put a picture of the new Lara Croft model (Lara Weller) in my .plan file here.  :)

3) Is there anyone reading this that works for a soda vending machine such as Dr. Pepper or Pepsi (or Coke)?  If so, please drop me an email.  Thanks.

4) We need more "Bort" license plates in the gift shop.  I repeat, we are sold out of "Bort" license plates!


