Account Name:  Joe Siegler
Email address: joes@3drealms.com
----------
12:19 PM 5/20/99

1) I rather enjoyed Phantom Menace.  It was a *LOT* of fun.  

The "Jar-Jar Binks" stuff:
I agree with the general concensus that Jar-Jar Binks is annoying, however..  This *IS* ultimately a movie aimed at kids.  George Lucas said that "Star Wars is a Saturday afternoon serial for kids".  If you keep that in mind, you can understand why Jar Jar is there. He's highly annoying in the beginning of the movie, but as time went on, he wasn't so bad, and he does actually do two things to advance the plotline, so he's not totally useless. Jar Jar as a technical achivement was great, though.  No matter what you think of Jar-Jar the character, Jar Jar is a wonderful piece of moviemaking, I thought.  

I also think it's impossible for anyone of my generation who saw the originals in the theatres to have any kind of objective viewpoint on these new ones.  We've been living with them for 20 years or so, and have digested them, and know all the nuances.  There's no possible way we can be truly objective.  That's not to say we can't like it or dislike it, but our opinions are clouded by twenty years of 


The Sound:
Oh my god - I thought Armageddon was the "loudest" movie I've ever seen.  Not anymore.  Phantom Menace's sound is just awesome.  I'm not the type of person that will sit there and pick things apart the first time I see them.  I prefer to enjoy something while I'm seeing it the first time, and not take potshots at it about this doens't sound right, or that was done wrong.  I enjoyed the hell out of it.  The floor shook, it sounded awesome, I loved the music.  For once, I actually enjoyed all the music that was played over the end credits (and I stayed till the absolute end of it).   IMHO, top notch stuff here.


The plot:
The plotline was fairly simple, but then again, Star Wars has never been about completely convoluted plotlines.  This was no better or worse than "A New Hope" to me.  


Actors:
Loved Liam Neeson and Natalie Portman.  Evan McGregor was OK, didn't think he was outstanding, but he wasn't anywhere near bad, either.  And the kid (forget his name) wasn't bad at all either - I was dreading him, but he wasn't bad at all.

Overall, a totally enjoyable FUN movie - and that's what these things are supposed to be about - HAVING FUN IN THE THEATRE.  :)

And yes, Dopefish looked really scary on the big screen!  :D  Swim swim eat Jar Jar.

I'm going again next Tuesday - let's see if I still feel the same way.  :D

2) We're still sold out of "Bort" license plates!  We need more Bort license plates in the gift shop!



5:02 PM 5/14/99

1) Is there anyone reading this who is in Japan and is also into Black Sabbath?  If so, please drop me a line.  I have a question to ask.

2) The new web sites are having some more technical problems.  I thought it'd be corrected by now, but it hasn't been.  Hopefully early next week.

3) http://www.e3babes.com is still not up, but only because the Internic still hasn't processed the DNS name server change!  From what I'm told, the "booth babe" count at this year's E3 isn't as big as it was last year.  Why?  I'm not there.  If I go back for Babe2K, there had better be more!  :)
	
    