Account Name:  joes
Email address: joes@finger.3drealms.com
----------
3:06 PM 12/7/99

Work Stuff:

1) Remember that alt tag - search & replace issue I ranted about a few days ago?   Well, one of the pieces of software recommended to me from the email responses I got did the trick.  It's called (Duh!) "Search & Replace 98".

This thing is insanely fast!   I ran (a backup copy of course) of the new web site through it and it ran through all 325 HTML files I have and did the search and replace in THIRTY EIGHT SECONDS!  I couldn't believe it was done that fast.  It was insane!

This thing is awesome.  And what's better is that it's freeware!  If you want to check it out for yourself, go here:  http://www.htmlworkshop.com/srhtml98.html

I still wish I had a "built into FP2k" solution, but this will suffice.   Thanks again to everyone who replied to my original message - especially those who pointed me in the direction of this software.


2) Work on the new web site is heading into the home stretch.  I'm really hoping to be done with it on Friday, then do QC on the pages, and then upload next Monday.  No promises, though.  Still need to do a few things - I'm not done yet.  :)


3) I've had several messages from people saying that id put a Dopefish in Quake III.  Check out this picture: http://homepage2.rconnect.com/lhdwe/q3_dopefish.jpg.  This looks nothing like Dopefish at all.  Since I don't have a full version of Q3A yet - can someone who does look inside the data structure and see if id really calls this a Dopefish, or is this just another case of overzealous Dopefish fans calling any fish that happens to be a green a Dopefish?  :)



Non Work Stuff:

1) Don't eat two Gorditas really fast.  Gives you an upset stomach!

2) Don't you just hate it that a string of Christmas lights never seems to last to the next year?  When you pull them out, they're always in a knot, no matter how nicely you put them away, and then there is one bulb in the middle that screws everything up?   Arrrrrrrrrgh!

3) Anyone playing the Hasbro Chess via Email program and want to play?  Drop me a line.


CD's I'm listening to:

1) AC/DC - For Those About to Rock, We Salute You
2) Guns & Roses - Use Your Illusion (I had forgotten how much I liked the song November Rain)
3) Van Halen - 5150
4) Motorhead - Greatest Hits
5) CCR - Greatest Hits
6) Santana - Supernatural (This might very well be the CD I've enjoyed most in 1999.  This thing is awesome!)