Account Name:  joes
Email address: joes@finger.3drealms.com
----------
10:29 AM 1/19/00

Work Stuff:

1) Yesterday afternoon, I got the final approval for the new new 3D Realms web site template.  Today, I start the process of re-converting the web site.  I was done before, and then got told it should change to something different again.  Despite my personal annoyance at that, (mostly because I was totally done before) and the fact that I'm just about back to square 1, I have to say this is a really positive move for us.  The "old new" site you won't see was good, but this is MUCH MUCH better.  Brian Cozzens has done a really great job whipping up the graphic framework for the new site, and he deserves credit for this (even if for no other reason than putting up with the myriad of changes thrown his way).  

Last time it took me three weeks to convert from the current site you can see to the version that was rejected (that you won't see).  Converting from that version to this new one which you will eventually see shouldn't take as long, but I'll find out how long once I really get into it.  :)

I'm really jazzed about this new look - we're sure you will be, too.   There's also more than just a new look to the site that will launch at this time, but I can't yet say what that will be - all I know is that it will please a LOT of people out there.  :)


Non-Work Stuff:

1) Noticed that after I mentioned the Dopefish Seti@Home group, several people joined.  That's pretty cool.  If there's anyone who is interested in joining the Dopefish SETI@home group, you can do so here:

http://setiathome.ssl.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/cgi?cmd=team_lookup&name=dopefish


CD's I've been listening to lately:

1) Carlos Santana - Supernatural (I was listening before the media started paying attention - this thing is VERY VERY good)
2) WASP - Helldorado
3) Weird Al - Running with Scissors
4) Metallica - S&M (OH MY SWEET JESUS IS THIS GOOD!)
5) George Carlin - You are All Diseased (The master still has got it)

A remark about Carlin - I've heard stories he's having problems live lately, but on this record, he's still awesome.  There's a very funny bit about women who say "You Go Girl".  Forget the exact wording, but it goes something like 

..."And what's with white women trying to sound black by saying "Girlfriend"?  Saying "Girlfriend" doesn't make you black.  And while I'm on the subject, I don't care what color you are, "You go Girl" SHOULD PROBABLY GO!!"

My god, did I laugh out loud at that.