Account Name:  joes
Email address: joes@finger.3drealms.com
----------
2:01 PM 5/23/00

Personal Stuff (Actually, VERY personal stuff):

I know some people get irritated when I write about personal things in my .plan file, but I don't give a crap about that now.  I have several friends who I know read this thing who I can't easily get ahold of, and this probably the best way to reach them.

I had to put my cat Flash to sleep this morning.  It was the hardest thing I've ever had to do in my life, but she had been suffering from kidney damage since last December, and she took a really bad turn about a week ago, and last night was the final straw.  The previous 36 hours or so before I wrote this, she'd been howling, was in obvious pain, and generally was not happy.  She hadn't eaten a single thing in two days, and before that, she was eating so little, she might as well had not been eating.  She was barely drinking, and she hadn't done any of things that made her "her" in quite some time.

I talked it over with my wife Lynn last night (unfortunately she's back home in Pittsburgh spending some time with her family), and then with my Vet this morning that it was best for Flash if we put her to sleep.  

We'd had Flash on fluid treatments since last December, and a month ago, the Vet said that if we hadn't been doing this for her, she would have gone long before this.  She'd been getting (relatively) better for the last few months, and two weeks ago, her regular blood test showed her BUN & Creatne levels had shot through the roof, and were twice as high as they had been when she first came in with the problem.  This wasn't a good sign at all, and quite frankly, when that happened, I figured that was it.  She was still sort of acting like herself (playing, purring, talking to birds, etc), but that went away a few days later.  This Saturday evening was the start of the end, I think.  

The Vet said that there wasn't much left she could do for her, the fluid treatments were having no effect anymore on her body, and the litany of problems I read to her that she'd been having over the last 24-36 hours (not eathing, drinking, using the cat box, dry heaves, and once throwing up some bile) indicated to her that her kidneys had already failed - in the vet's words "she was poisoning herself from the inside".   My vet is cool, and she told me at the beginning of all this that she's not the kind of vet to put an animal to sleep unless it's really the last choice.  She's been really good about all of this, and very kind and helpful.

The one thing that is a big indicator of the drastic change in her health was her weight.  Before all these problems started, she weighed about 9.8-10.1 pounds.  Today, she weighed 4.9.  She literally was wasting away, and as much as I loved my cat, it was brutal to watch it anymore.  She was really bony at the end.

This all went down about two hours ago from the writing of this.   I'm really not looking for sympathy emails, I just wanted to get the word out to the folks who know me personally.

I cried my eyes out in the parking lot after I left without my cat.  :(

Bye Flash.  I love you.
	
    