Account Name:  joes
Email address: joes@finger.3drealms.com
----------
5:35 PM 5/23/2001

Work Stuff:

We released the DNF & Max Payne videos on Monday, and today we released the first batch of E3 pictures.  To put it mildly, it whacked our server.  Due to this, I've had to turn off the forums, and also prevent the cgi's from executing and even telling you that they're turned off to save server processes.  In addition, I've removed the poll script from the front page for hte time being to help out with this, and the ad banner stuff from the front page.  

Needless to say, I'm not thrilled about all of this, and am investigating a better option.  Taught me a lesson in being prepped for game releases.  If we're this whacked with just pictures then we need something better.  I knew what we are running on would be insufficient for the time that we have a release, but I didn't think we'd get hammered this bad this FAST.  

On the positive side, it shows that interest is definitely there.  :)

Hopefully, this will all be resolved quickly.  IN the meantime the forums are off until the server demand dies down a bit.  No files are lost, everything is intact, they're just turned off.

E3 Stuff:

This year was a mixed bag for me in terms of E3.  The show itself?  Boring.  After you've been to a couple of them, they all run into each other, and you only ever care about specific titles you wanted to see.

There were only two games I wanted to see when I went to LA, Return to Castle Wolfenstien, and SimsVille.  I saw both of them, and they looked awesome.  There was one game that I hadn't heard of at E3 that really impressed me.  That was Mafia.  I saw the trailer in the Gathering lot, and went and saw their presentation.  It was quite cool.

The physics of the cars was awesome, and there's a lot of potential fun in there - it seemed like they had inserted a Carmageddon type feel into the cars insofar as you can drive around the city, run people over, etc..  There's a lot more to the game than that, but I focused in on the cars.  People looked good, interaction was great.  I can't wait for this one.

Anyway, I met some good friends who I hadn't seen in awhile - foremost is Joe Selinske of Westwood.  Ske used to work here at Apogee, then went to TRI, worked there for awhile (on the two Termianl Velocity sequels, and some other games), then went to Ritual on Sin, and now lives in Vegas and works with Westwood.  A good, good friend - as is the Levelord who was cool and fed me from the grill.  :).  I also saw some former 3DR folks which was nice, and met some new friends, like Hellchick from PlanetQuake.  Romero & Stevie Case were nice to me, and it was great hanging out with the Gathering folks (Hey Smitty!)  It sucked that Doug Myers wasn't there.  I don't claim to know him as a great friend, but he was always cool to me.  Met up with Joe Ske & Jim Dose of id for dinner at an awesome steak place in downtown LA.  A resturant on the 35th floor of the Westin Bonaventure hotel - the same place that they filmed part of True Lies in (the bit with Arnold on the horse in an elevator? Same place).  Spent a couple of hours shooting the shit up there, reminiscing about old games, the times we've spent in the industry - awesome awesome dinner chat.  Went downstairs and ran into Adrian Carmack from id, and Adrian and I talked about something we have in common - working in the same place and the same job for a long long time in this industry.  

From what I've been told, there will be no Promised Lot in E3 next year.  If E3 is in Los Angeles next year without a Gathering lot, I might pass on even going.  However, the rumour around E3 was that it will be in Las Vegas next year.  If that's the case, I'll go.  :)

In closing, the show was a bore to me, but I had a great time with the industry folks I know, had a wonderful time with them.  I know I'm missing a few people, but you can't remember everything in a .plan update.  ;)

Joe Siegler
Webmaster - 3D Realms