[rogue-ent.com]
Login name: strife    			In real life: Strife by Rogue Entertainment
Directory: /Users/strife            	Shell: /bin/csh
On since May 20 18:21:02 on console 	66 days Idle Time
Project: http://www.velocitygames.com/
Plan:
STRIFE is a role-playing oriented action game by Rogue Entertainment Inc.
It uses an improved version of Doom's excellent engine to bring
you an RPG style world.  the levels are seamlessly integrated to
represent a single world of connected maps. you can go back to the town
again and again to buy more ammo from the merchant.  or whatever.

Strife-  An action / R.P.G. where medieval and high technologies combine
to form a world where warfare and oppression are a way of life.  Your faith
in the Order, a quasi-religious militant sect that serves as both spiritual
and political masters for the people, has eroded into hatred and mistrust.
You are one of the new breed, one of the few who are willing to fight for
change against the Order.  There are others,  the underground rebellion, the
Movement.  You've heard stories of how they've begun to strike back, and in
large enough numbers to actually frighten the Order.  Your wish is to join
with them, overthrow the Order and bring the tyranny to its end.  This is
where you begin your journey through Strife.

Gain glory as you discover new lands, complete challenging tasks...

Cool Technical Advances:
- 8 player simultaneous deathmatch!
- Seamless connection of 31 different areas!
- Teleporters to bring in assistance during fights!
- Ability to talk to and interact with people in the Strife World.
- Jump over objects!
- Windows you can SEE through! (And break..... heheheh)
- Remove that neck brace and look around!
- Ability to improve your skills and abilities!
- A story that you affect through your actions...

Many awesome weapons and weapon enhancements!
Tons more actors, robots, items, and missions.

OnScreen realtime FRAG Counts with color coding,
and death notices with customizable names.

Release date:
May 1996
--------------------------------------------------
Strife:  In a world where warfare reigns as the sport of Kings,
and technology is the best weapon, change begins.

----------
12 May 96
---------
The complete version of Strife shipped to manufacturing two weeks ago,
and should be available in stores on or about the 20th of May. We've
recieved a early box copy and it looks good.

There is an updater for a few items that didn't make it into the first
CD printing, check the Velocity and Rogue web sites for it. It's
available right now, and updates Strife to version 1.2.

We've revised the system requirements a little, which may or may not be
up to date on the various web sites. The current minimum is a 486DX2/66,
with 8MB of free memory. The full install on your hard drive is
about 60-70 MB. You can run a smaller install, if you're still in the
stone age (like some of us), that only takes up about 35MB.

Strife runs fine under Windows 95, but you had better have at least a
16MB machine. Strife really wants about 7-8MB of FREE memory that it
can use. You can physically run it on an 8MB machine under windows,
but it will page like a monster, and will run like garbage.

We are currently evaluating developing ports of Strife to other platforms.

---------

The Strife Demo is available on the internet at ftp.cdrom.com in
the /pub/idgames/misc directory.

Visit the Strife/Rogue Web pages at:
http://www.velocitygames.com/

Visit Rogue's Web page at:
http://www.gamers.org/~rogue/
