[rogue-ent.com]
Login name: strife    			In real life: Strife by Rogue Entertainment
Directory: /Users/strife            	Shell: /bin/csh
Never logged in.
Project: http://doomgate.cs.buffalo.edu/games/strife
Plan:
6 MAR 96
---------
Tech Notes for those who've asked:
	Strife will run under the same operating systems as Doom2.
	Runs just fine under Windows 95!  no tweaking needed!

	But we don't recommend you try to Deathmatch under Windows!

STRIFE is a role-playing oriented action game by Rogue Entertainment Inc.
It uses an improved version of Doom's excellent engine to bring
you an RPG style world.  the levels are seamlessly integrated to
represent a single world of connected maps. you can go back to the town
again and again to buy more ammo from the merchant.  or whatever.

Strife-  An action / R.P.G. where medieval and high technologies combine to
form a world where warfare and oppression are a way of life.  Your faith in
the Order, a quasi-religious militant sect that serves as both spiritual and
political masters for the people, has eroded into hatred and mistrust.  You
are one of the new breed, one of the few who are willing to fight for change
against the Order.  There are others,  the underground rebellion, the
Movement.  You've heard stories of how they've begun to strike back, and in
large enough numbers to actually frighten the Order.  Your wish is to join
with them, overthrow the Order and bring the tyranny to its end.  This is
where you begin your journey through Strife.  Gain glory as you discover new
lands, complete challenging tasks...

What's working now: Level to level warping, Jumping, looking up and down,
Player stats and rewards, translucent mid textures, 8 player deathmatch
destruction, NPC conversation, inventory, new actors, plot.

Many awesome weapons and weapon enhancements!
tons more actors, robots, items, and yes, plot and missions.
OnScreen realtime FRAG Counts with color coding,
and death notices with customizable names.
Transponder to bring in fight support, translated to your player color.
Translucent armor, use it twice to become completely invisable.
New deathmatch fun, sound and music,

What we're working on:  finishing the scripting for the registered levels
Because now we have: multiple plot flows, voice over, and cut scenes.

Release date:
May 1996
--------------------------------------------------
Strife:  In a world where warfare reigns as the sport of Kings,
and technology is the best weapon, change begins.

