Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Daggerfall is one of my favorite games of all time.  Equal with, although not surpassing, the great System Shock 2.  I love both of these games for different reasons, but they both gave me hours of entertainment and enjoyment.

Therefore, I have waited for about 6 years for Morrowind, the sequel to Daggerfall.  When I heard Morrowind announced, I was full of joy and dread.  Can they stand up to the greatness that was Daggerfall?  Will the game be toned down in content to appeal to more players?  Will it be full of bugs?

I am very pleased to say that Morrowind has fully lived up to my expectations.  As far as I can tell at this point, having invested some 15-20 hours in the game, there has been no reduction in gameplay quality.  In fact, the Elder Scrolls design has been greatly improved.

Yes, there are bugs.  Know this ahead of time.  Be smart with your save files.  They won't get corrupted, but you will occaisionally get dumped to the desktop.  Frustrating, but nothing compared to what early adopting Daggerfall fans had to live with.  It could be more stable, but I'm willing to live with the occaisional problem in light of the game's benefits.

And oh the benefits!

First, the graphics are incredible.  This game is beautiful.  The world is high poly and well textured, the water makes great use of pixel shaders.  Yum!  The character models are well done, although seem a little disproportioned.  The game ran a little rough on my 1.1 Ghz + GF3 machine at work, but fine after I reduced the viewable area a bit.  At home, on my 2.0 Ghz + GF3 machine the game ran screamingly fast.

The gameplay is what matters though and there is plenty of it.  The rules system is more or less the same as Daggerfall.  Character creation has removed the element of picking your advantages and disadvantages and instead encapsulated them into celestial auspices.  For example: Mine is "The Tower" which lets me detect hidden keys, enchantments, and animals.  It also lets me open a lock of up to difficulty 50 once per day.

There are plenty of skills and all seem fairly useful.  My current character has taken the following skills:

Focus Stats:
Strength, Intelligence

Primary:
Longsword, Block, Medium Armor, Restoration Magic, Alchemy

Secondary:
Sneak, Security, Destruction, Mysticism, something else I forget.

This is a custom class called "Emperor's Hand" that is very similar to one I played in Daggerfall.  Originally, to fit the Emperor's Hand theme more I had acrobatics and speechcraft.  I was also of the Imperial race.  However, I found that acrobatics is as easy to raise as it was in Daggerfall (just hop around a lot) and practicing Speechcraft ruined my faction with everybody (you have to taunt, intimidate, or admire people to raise it) so I went for something that fit my playstyle better.  I also found that the conjuration spell list a little difficult to use.  The monster summoning spells use a lot of mana and it really hurts if you fizzle a spell.

There are a million quests and factions in the game.  I was overwhelmed when I got to the city of Belmura.  Apparently it isn't even the largest city in the game.  Everyone who has played Daggerfall is used to really big cities, but those were cardboard cutouts.  This is another story entirely.

The game also plays smarter than its predecessors in terms of thievery.  You can still rob merchants blind, but if you try to sell their goods back to them they get wise to you.  That having been said, the game maybe makes it too easy for a moral character to steal.  In one early Mage's Guild quest you have an opportunity to snatch a very pricey soul stone and as of yet I haven't seen any consequences to my dastardliness.  In the context of the quest, it would be _very_ obvious that you were the thief so...

But that's a minor nitpick.  Overall the game fully lives up to my expectations.  It's simply FULL of stuff to do and it's completely freeform.  This is the kind of RPG I love: one where you play your character as you want.  Not one where you walk through a tedious script.  The soul of role playing is very much alive in this title.  This is what RPG should be about.  Not "final fantasy."

You will not find any chibi here.  In fact, the world of Morrowind is very enjoyably dark.  I have always thought that the Emperor, Uriel Septim VII, was painted as a bit mad and he seems just as mad in this title as he did in Daggerfall.  Well...maybe not mad...just a bit passionate and reactive.  The Empire of Tamriel is one that condones necromantic experimentation on human dead.  They have a sanctioned Imperial Cult that worships questionably "good" gods and demons.  Even the Assassin's guild operates under official imperial sanction.  (Or so an Imperial Cultist told me in game.  And loosely: even an official assassin walks in shadow.  Lest the hunter become the hunted.)

Anyway, I'll stop myself before I ramble on too long.  I highly recommend this game.  It does have its fair share of gameisms and it is not perfect, but it is an excellent example of freeform role playing set in a detailed and interesting world.  There is a lot of story to be told and you are the one who chooses how it is told.

My favorite Morrowind gameism so far:  I talked to a merchant and he said "I'm not going to barter with you while you are carrying that illegal narcotic.  I don't want any trouble."  So I dropped the narcotic on the floor of his store, traded with him, and picked it up when I was done.  It's the little inconsistancies like this, that aren't hard to fix, that sometimes make you shake your head and grin.  Will games EVER be perfect?