Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------
If you are interested in learning about Magic: The Gathering or want a place to play Magic and you live in the Dallas Metro area, check out Triple Cards on Saturday at noon.  Triple Cards is located in Plano in the SE shopping center at the corner of Park and Avenue K.  You can take the Park exit on 75 and head east for a couple blocks and you'll see a sign in the shopping center that says "SPORTS CARDS."

We play $12 drafts of triple Onslaught.  It's a lot of fun.  8 packs prize for 1st and 4 packs prize for 2nd.

Starting Friday, November 1st, Triple Cards will be hosting Friday Night Magic Type 2 tournaments at 7:30.

Feel free to show up if you are interested in learning the game, its a lot of fun.

For those who don't play magic: A draft is where you sit at a table with seven other players.  You open a pack of cards and take the one you want and pass the rest on.  You keep doing this until all the cards are taken (repeat for two more packs).  Then you build a deck out of the cards you picked and play a mini-tournament with them.  There is a lot of strategy involved from what you pick, to what you think others are picking, to how to build your deck and how to play.

Jumping into a draft is probably not the best way to learn the game (you'll get beat very hard) but if you want to learn someone will be able to help.  Just don't do any trades until you know what you are doing ^_^

---

I've been playing Hitman 2 and Kingdom Hearts.  Hitman 2 is a lot of fun.  The game is a little too easy if you go in guns blazing (later levels get tougher) so the best plan is to try to sneak in and get the Silent Assassin awards.  These awards let you unlock hidden weapons.  The game isn't exactly Thief 2 with guns, but it's close and worth a try by anyone who likes fun games.  Sneaking in to a Japanese mansion dressed as a chef and poisoning a mark with bad sushi is too cool.

Kingdom Hearts is good also.  Don't ignore it because of the Disney theme.  It's mainly a RPG flavored platform game, but a strong story, decent combat, and great graphics make it entertaining.

I've been told Divine Divinity is very good also, despite the weird name.  Honestly there are too many good games to keep up with right now.  Nearly every genre has something worth playing.

I just watched videos of Zelda and Metroid: Prime.  Yum.
