Account Name:  brandonr
Email address: brandonr@finger.3drealms.com
----------
3D Realms has returned from E3, here is my post-show wrap up and various musings that crossed my noggin while walking the show floor.

First, a word about CNN leaking the DNF video early.  Apparently this was authorized by GOD Games, it was not our intent to release the video early and we were very angry that it was both leaked and edited.  Nothing we could do about it though, we didn't hear about it until several hours after since we were on the plane.  We discussed releasing the video early to counteract CNN's crappy version, but decided to wait.

Despite GOD's poor handling of the DNF video (something I may or may not talk about later...I would love to rail on GOD but I'd probably get into trouble), the internet based reaction to the video we released has been fantastic.  It seems that DNF related threads have seen more fan-base conversation and debate than any other game at E3, despite the relative lack of traditional online press coverage.

The PC games showing at this year's E3 was pretty good.  I am impressed with Age of Mythology, Dungeon Siege and Warcraft 3.  Blizzard's animation team is rivaled only by Square Soft of Japan.  I was not really that impressed with the FPS offerings.  Wolfenstein looks good, but I don't see much variance or innovation in gameplay.  I hope this game doesn't turn out to be a cut and dried shooter.

In fact, innovation in gameplay seemed to be sorely lacking all over E3.  On a whim, I queried several game development teams on the constitution of their programming teams.  It seems most game programming teams average about 80% tech programmers and 20% gameplay.  How can true innovation in gameplay be achieved without proper focus?  3D Realms is 33% tech programmers and 66% gameplay.  The difference is significant.  The Duke video only shows a small fraction of the various situations the player will find themselves in.  Perhaps this lack of gameplay development is the true cause of stagnation in the FPS genre.

The console side of things is interesting.  First of all, the Game Cube is incredibly impressive.  All of the games look great, look like fun, and run fast.  I didn't see anything that turned me off.  Gotta have a Game Cube.  On the Playstation 2 front I was impressed by Final Fantasy X and, of course, Metal Gear Solid 2.  I think the Playstation 2 will pick up speed as some of these better games come out.  The XBox, on the other hand, was wholely unimpressive.  None of the games jumped out at me at all.  Halo, in particular, was a let down.  I don't think I saw this game running faster than 5 frames per second at all and the gameplay seemed very underdeveloped.

Unreal Championship for XBox was a surprise.  For a game only under development for 4 months, Digital Extremes had already fleshed out almost all the weapons and had some vehicles running (in addition to a whole bunch of maps).  This is a game to keep your eyes on, although I'm skeptical of FPS on any console.

What is up with the XBox control?  There is this huge green circle wasting space in the middle and the button and d-pad layout is unmanageable.  I guess they felt they had to make the control complex so it was something different.  I'll take the Game Cube control or the classic Playstation Dual-Shock over an XBox handle any day.  My advice to console developers: keep the control small, keep the memory card slots in the main housing.

I award no "Best of Show" for nothing hand me dancing in the aisles like last year's Metal Gear Solid 2 video.
