
Name: James Monroe
Email: jmonroe@ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Programmer
Project: ?
Nickname: Emorog
Web Page: <a href="http://www.geocities.com/em0r0g/index.html">James' Web Site</a>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ahh, the age of the autoresponder.

I've been being bombarded with email from Netflix over the past several weeks, with subjects like "UNDELIVERED (was Incoming message)", "UNDELIVERED (was Re: Incoming Fax)", and "UNDELIVERED (was I'm a sad girl...)", etc.
(I am not currently a member of Netflix, so i do not have an account there.)  The emails appear to be coming from an autoresponder catch-all for bad addresses at Netflix.
I'm guessing that some spammer (or virus) is sending out mail to Netflix faking my address, so when they get it, they bounce back a "helpful" auto-response to me with links for more info on my account or Customer Service.

It doesn't seem to be stopping, so i sent an email to customer service explaining this theory, and included samples of the spam i've been getting from them.  
I suggested that they might check for faked mx or check incoming messages for known spam or viruii, or at least look into all the mail they're sending me!
here is the reply:

Hello,

Thanks for your message. I was unable to find a Netflix account 
associated with your email address. In order to best assist you, I will 
need more information regarding this issue. Please reply with the email 
address you use to Log In at Netflix as well as your full name and 
shipping address. 

Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any further questions 
or concerns.

Thanks,
Lisa
Netflix Customer Service

To view the terms of your Unlimited Rental Service Subscription please 
click on the following link; http://www.netflix.com/Terms



Original Message Excluded: 
--------------------------



okay,... now i'm thinking they're using an auto responder for customer service and didn't actually read my complaint.

frustraed, i reply:
i don't have an account.  that is the point.  if you re-read the original email i sent, you will see that i was not referring to an account issue but a system failure on your part.

Netflix's reply:

Greetings, 

Thank you for contacting Netflix.com Customer Service.  We will 
personally reply to your message as quickly as possible.  Please do not 
reply to this email unless pertinent information was missing from your 
original message.  Duplicate correspondence may delay our ability to 
respond to your inquiry. 

Did you know that you can check your order status and history directly 
through the Your Account link located at the top of each page?  
http://www.netflix.com/ShippingStatus

Also, if you have other customer service questions, please check our new
Customer Service Center at http://www.netflix.com/CustomerService

We greatly appreciate any feedback or comments you may have regarding 
your experience with Netflix.com

Again, thank you for contacting Netflix.com Customer Service.

Sincerely,

The Netflix.com Team



and then 2 minutes later, this one:

Hello,

Thanks for your message. 

To receive all mailings in a specific format, or to be removed our 
mailing lists, you can easily edit your preferences on our site. To do 
so, follow the link below:

http://www.netflix.com/EmailSubscription

1) Login using the email address and password used to sign up.

2) Select the option you would like, and click the "update 
subscriptions" bar.  

Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any further questions 
or concerns.

Thanks,

Netflix Customer Service

To view the terms of your Unlimited Rental Service Subscription please 
click on the following link; http://www.netflix.com/Terms



Original Message Excluded: 
--------------------------


okay, the "personally reply" sounds encouraging.  i'll just wait patiently in the meantime.
