Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Saturday January 1, 2000

4:11 AM

Well, I was hoping for a nuclear blast or something.  Boooring.

I've released the open source archive at the sourceforge page.
You can get there from openut.sourceforge.net.

The file is available in tar/gz and zip formats.  The archive
includes stuff for win32 and Linux.  All of the public engine
headers are included, so you can start working on extended
mods and stuff.

Feel free to participate in the message boards and bug tracking
system on the Source Forge page.

The next task is to get CVS up and running, but I'll probably put
that off to the side for a few days and do some work on my
other projects.

I've got a huge list of crap to do for the next UT patch.

Friday December 31, 1999

9:58 PM

A new patch for UT Linux is available at openut.sourceforge.net.  Follow
the link to the project root page and download from the column on
the right.  Feel free to leave bug reports, but please register with
Source Forge first so I can contact you if necessary.

This patch is version 402B and is a Linux patch only.  It contains fixes
for two critical Linux issues:
  * UT Linux now runs under Enlightenment.
  * UT Linux will properly shutdown glide after a critical crash.
It also has a few other fixes and incidentals.

There will be no 402B patch for Windows.  The next multiplatform UT
patch will be 403 (we'll probably release the first UT expansion pack
around that time).

I will release the open source archives tonight or tomorrow, depending
on how long it takes to get organized.

The UT open source project page also contains debugging binaries.  You
can read about these in the Announcements forum.  WEB SITES: Please don't
mirror these, they are 20 megs each and its not necessary for
most users to get them, only programmers will want them.  Running the
game with debugging libraries is slow and not a good idea for most
people.  Mirroring them on fan sites is probably not appropriate. 

There are binary archives for guard and slowguard.  You can read
about the difference on the site.
