Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
   11 minutes 10 seconds idle
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Tuesday, April 4, 2000

I take great exception to the Machinima.com article on "Which Engine?"
should a mod author choose.  The author of this article certainly didn't
contact anyone at Epic to qualify their claims.

The author argues that Epic is not putting a huge effort into support
the user community.  My response is "?"  Maybe I'm not being clear here.
Epic is actively PAYING mod authors we feel have cool projects.  We have
also purchased equipment (programs like 3DS Max) for mod authors who have
shown us cool work.  While we can't pay for every mod under the sun, we
are working hard to create an active scene.

I've personally written a TON of documentation on UnrealScript and programming
issues for mod authors.  In addition, every Epic employee answers emails
about mod development related questions.  Shane Caudle runs a UT model
information site, James Green is preparing a UT related art information
site (epicknights.com), and Jack Porter, Steve Polge, and I are extremely
active on the UnrealScript at eGroups discussion list and the Epic hosted
UT Mods development discussion list.

Had the author of the Machinima article approached Epic or asked scene
developers about their experiences with us, they probably would have
painted a different picture.

I will continue to work on documentation for the Unreal engine as will
everyone else at Epic.  However, we are ALL available on a lot of
different mailing lists, and discussion forums (many of which we host).

I highly suggest the UnrealScript discussion list at eGroups if you are
interested in UT mod development and the OpenUT discussion list at
sourceforge if you are interested in Linux related UT hacking.

Finally, Jack, Steve, and I are all available through email if you have
any mod development related questions.  Every question might not get
answered because we do get busy sometimes, but I definitely try to answer
what I get (and I forward a lot to Tim).


---

A 413 for Linux is in testing with a few of our server operators from
the UTServers mailing list.  This version of 413 does not include any
code from OpenUT.  I will probably release this patch in delta compressed
and non-compressed format.

I am going to talk to Daniel Vogel about releasing an OpenUT enhanced
413 afterwards.  I was integrating the CVS features, but I can't test
them all and I am running short on time.  The programmers who have
contributed to OpenUT have gotten a LOT of stuff in great shape.

They've added support for music, a much less cpu intensive mixing scheme,
support for control through SDL, support for MesaGL through SDL, and lots
of stability features.  All of this code is available through the OpenUT
website, openut.sourceforge.net.

There will also be a new public source distribution to follow the 413
Linux release.
