Any of a hundred styles.


Prey:

 Full retail version, and updated demo installer, good to go!
   http://icculus.org/news/news.php?id=4487

 I'm gathering some notes here, for everyone's benefit:

 STEAM UPDATE: apparently preykey doesn't store the last two characters of the
  key...I'm looking into this still. Buying a physical disc is safer for now
  while I sort this out. Also, my understanding is that you can put your
  physical CD key into Steam later and it adds it as a "purchase" to your
  game list, letting you have both for the price of one; this was a leftover
  from Triton's collapse. Can anyone confirm this still works?

 Those installing from a Steam download: your CD key is in a text file
  installed with the game. Look at:

   C:Program FilesSteamsteamappscommonpreyasepreykey

 The game will prompt you for a CD key when you first start it. Use that one.
 Also, if you're on Win64, "Program Files" will be "Program Files (x86)".

 Also, if the game crashes on startup, and had written this to the terminal...

    GL_VENDOR: NVIDIA Corporation
    GL_VERSION: 1.4 (2.1.2 NVIDIA 177.82)

 ...then your drivers are misinstalled. The red flag there is the "1.4" string.
 The current nvidia drivers should look like this...

    GL_VENDOR: NVIDIA Corporation
    GL_VERSION: 2.1.2 NVIDIA 177.82

 ...almost universally, the problem is multiple OpenGL libraries residing on
 the system, and usually it's because you installed the closed-source Nvidia
 drivers from a distro-provided package. My current guess is that the X server
 package is installing a generic, Mesa-based GL, and the Nvidia package 
 installs another.

 In all cases, it appears that installing the drivers from nvidia.com--using
 their installer--fixes it, probably because part of the installation process
 is cleaning out old and incorrect libGL.so's that might be laying around your
 filesystem. The downside is that your distro will no longer be able to
 automatically maintain the package for you...but you're still using the same
 binary-only driver at the end of the day, either way.

 Some people have mentioned that the problem went away when updating the
 distro-provided package, for various distros. I haven't done much research
 into the specific causes and solutions; this is all anecdotal guesswork.

 As for Intel GPU users, it looks like the video drivers are just wanged for
 your hardware at the moment. Sorry, the game just isn't working at all from
 what I've heard. I'm not certain this game is going to be playable on GMA*
 chipsets anyhow, but you should probably talk to the x.org developers about 
 it if you want to dig deeper.


Crysis Wars:

 Linux dedicated server: http://icculus.org/news/news.php?id=4475


Offload servers:

 I need them. http://icculus.org/news/news.php?id=4465

--ryan.

--------------------------------------------------------------------
When this .plan was written: 2008-12-08 20:02:00
.plan archives for this user: finger icculus?listarchives=1@icculus.org
Powered by IcculusFinger v2.1.21 (http://icculus.org/IcculusFinger/)
Stick it in the camel and go.