Login: justin         			Name: Justin
Plan:
6/30/01

let's see.  movie making = good shit.
expression = good shit, really. 

i do not believe in wordwrap. i use vi and i love it.

i'm teaching myself to play the piano a bit. kinda hoping i will learn to
play the same way i learned to type on a keyboard. by getting so used to 
it that i just know where all the keys are, and when i need to hit one,
i'll figure out what the most efficient way to do that is. i actually took
lessons when i was a kid, but i had to quit after a few months, because
my piano teacher's morning breath was too bad. so now i'm playing the opening
notes of nightswimming. kinda fun. i'm convinced that if you just don't give
up on it, you can do anything. look at the president...

i liked working on that short (that tom speaks of) especially much
because it was really working within a team of people all doing very
different things to accomplish the same goals. i'm not really used to 
working within a team.

but then again, i didn't really do any one thing on it, just a bit of 
crap. i wasa dumb generalist who was surrounded by a bunch of people 
who knew exactly what they were doing. kinda intimidating, really- 
but fun. i did do a decent amount of "behind-the-scenes" photography,
though, including this shot: http://fdiv.org/movie.jpg

saw radiohead on wednesday night, but i was so exhausted that i didn't
really appreciate how amazing the show was until friday.
when they played "you and whose army" it was fucking amazing, among other
songs. the venue kinda sucked (shoreline), would have liked the warfield 
better :).

and then there is my work. kinda feeling burnt out on it right now, because i 
hit the extent of my capability in a certain project, and if i had the energy 
i would spend some time learning and researching more, but alas, i'm just too 
tired to do that.

which comes back to the second content-containing line of this .plan, which is
that expression = good. i went outside and looked at the stars last night, it 
was chilly. when i was in sedona i'd get over this phase by going hiking.. i 
remember one april when bryan and i were standing on top of this mountain 
overlooking where we went to school, and it was snowing, the clouds were very 
close above us.. it was easy to have a clear head in that environment. perhaps 
i need to make more of an effort to go do things by myself... time when i can 
just take everything else out of my mind, and enjoy the moment.

well, back to the piano i go. my fingers are starting to get sore. yay.