Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: tim.gift     Plan Last Modified: 02/14/1999 15:19:54 PST

Real Name: Tim Gift
Nickname: Slacker
Job: Director/Lead
Project: Starsiege Tribes

1.14.99

Hmm, well I had originally intended to come in this
weekend and upgrade the Combat and Training server and
get ready for our next release, but when I got in our
IRC server was under attack again. Using IRC for our
chat server has been a major pain in the butt.  We had
wanted to use it because of it's open architecture.
Wanted to allow people to connect and chat outside of
the game, something people were used to using, etc.,
seemed a lot more flexible and friendly than a writing
another proprietary chat system. Unfortunately, there
are quite a few bozos who seem to get a kick out of
disrupting our chat server, booting people off, or
otherwise being a nuisances. I've already wasted
several days getting up to speed on IRC and the MS
server, and here I am over the weekend doing the same,
when I could be working on TRIBES. What really annoys
me about all this is not the hackers themselves. Those
guys are really funny, bunch of useless dweebs. Love to
have one here, could laugh in his face, hehe, idiots.
I'm sure they think they're cool, but the stuff they do
is kindergarten programming, and most of them are just
using code written by someone else. What a bunch of
losers. No, what's annoying is the MS Chat server.
Documentation for that thing is useless.  I'm sure
there is some somewhere, but I haven't been able to
find anything reasonable yet.  All I get is references
to what a great program this thing is, or a list of
cool features, but rarely can I find information that
actually tell's me how to do anything, and when I do of
course, it's priceless tidbits like how to set up a
moderated channel for my big sales meeting. Hehe, who
writes this stuff? Probably would have been better off
coding up our own server, certainly would be less of a
problem now. Anyway, this IRC warfare stuff is pretty
stupid, so here I am wasting away the weekend. As for
the hackers, they're kind of like little flies buzzing
around, you'd love to just smack em, but all you have
is this fancy MS fly swatter with tons of buttons and
no manual, what I really should do is quit wasting my
time and roll up a magazine...