Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: tim.gift     Plan Last Modified: 02/19/1999 16:07:39 PST

Real Name: Tim Gift
Nickname: Slacker
Job: Director/Lead
Project: Starsiege Tribes

2.19.99

Finally upgraded the servers this morning.  A little
embarrassing that it took us so long.  Right after we
released 1.2, we found a few server problems, and
I didn't want to upgrade all 29 servers to 1.2 just to
turn around and upgrade them all again to 1.3. The
OpenGL driver was in testing at that point, and so we
decided to just wait and roll OpenGL into 1.3.
Unfortunately, we kept running into problems with the
driver. The OpenGL driver has been a little trickier
than we originally  anticipated.  For some reason, we
had an optimistic, "this is going to be easy" attitude
towards OpenGL, just port it over and it's going to
work great!  Should have known better :)   Dave is
still on it full time, including weekends (he feels the
pressure). The driver is also going into Starsiege, so
Dave has been spending time with the Starsiege team to
help them integrate and test the driver with their
game.  The Starsiege team is definitely intent on
shipping with OpenGL to avoid the flak that TRIBES has
been getting :) At this point TRIBES/OpenGL is going
through final QA, soon as our QA lead thinks it's ready
for beta, it's out the door.  Should be sometime next
week.  We are going to have an open beta, as there
seems to be a lot of people who want to test it. There
are still a number of outstanding issues with OpenGL,
we'll have them all documented in the release notes as
well as a list of all the cards that we've tested with.
We'll be looking for feedback on the driver,
compatibility problems, performance issues, etc.

The OpenGL beta patch will include a few other
client side fixes as well; no longer linking directly
to the OpenGL library (GLU32), a client side badword
filter, keyboard break fix, few other items.
As this the patch is not a major release, we don't
recommend that you download it unless you are having
problems with the current release, or want to test the
new features.

IRC is temporarily under control again :)  We'll see
how that holds out. I'll be looking at alternatives.

I should also mention that my email back log is
currently 72, ah, make that 73 messages, It's way past
the point where I can answer all the mail that comes
in, I just don't have the time. I'm going to try
passing some of it off on to other guys on the team,
but some of it may go unanswered, don't take it
personally :)
