Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: tim.gift     Plan Last Modified: 02/26/1999 19:02:33 PST

Real Name: Tim Gift
Nickname: Slacker
Job: Director/Lead
Project: Starsiege Tribes

2.26.99

The good news is Starsiege went GOLD.  This was a
little overshadowed by some bad news, layoffs at
Dynamix due to the re-org that was announced the other
day.  The TRIBES team is still here, but this hasn't
been a very productive week.

OpenGL status: basically we're ready to release the
beta driver except for the TNT's performance. I thought
we were close to resolving our last issues here, but
we've stalled. We  can't get the TNT OpenGL drivers to
download textures at anything approaching a reasonable
rate.  Unfortunately, TRIBES does a fair amount of on
the fly construction of textures, mainly for the
terrain. The TNT driver does not seem capable of
dealing with it. (Dave Moore goes into general OpenGL
issues in his latest plan.)  Not having access to TNT's
source code, or any form of data from the driver, it
has been difficult to figure out what's going on. I
hate to say "go buy a 3Dfx card", but at this point
we're running out of ideas, and unless nVidia get's us
more information (or fixes their driver), were probably
not going to make much more progress. There is no
reason to believe that the TNT cards can't handle our
requirements. It's frustrating, if we knew the card
couldn't handle it, we would have dropped it long ago.
We believe the card can handle the load, we just can't
get the TNT driver to perform. There have been some
ideas on crippling the game to work around the problem,
but those ideas don't appeal to me too much. Another
option may be DirectX6, as those drivers may be better
optimized.  We'll continue to investigate.

In the mean time, we are getting tired of holding back
the 1.3 release, as I'm sure most of our players are,
so we are going to go ahead and release it.  We'll put
the build together on Monday. 1.3 will include the beta
OpenGL driver, but it will be disabled by default.
We'll include instructions on how to enable it if you
want to try it out, but there are some serious pauses
when new textures are downloaded, most of you will
probably not want to play this way.

Starsiege just shipped with our OpenGL driver and does
suffer the same problem, but to a lesser degree.
Starsiege has it's terrain and interiors configured
differently, and being a slower paced game, it
downloads textures less often.

I took a look at Shogo's patch progress page (thanks
Chas), http://www.shogo-mad.com/patch/fix.as, pretty
cool. We'll look into to doing something similar
ourselves.  It should help keep you guys informed as to
what we're working on.



