*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: billv
Plan modified: Sun Feb 21 00:18:04 1999

2/21/99

Finally sat down and played through Half-Life. It didn't take me that long, mostly because I had already watched people here play through the difficult parts, but I have to say it was a very full game. It definitely deserves all the kudos it got, and then some. If you're one of those few people like myself who passed on Half-Life at first, then take my word for it and make it the next game you buy. A delicious blend of Quake and the X-Files.

High point: Hearing the assassins move only when I moved. Recently got an SB Live with my speakers set up sorta surround-style, and damn... I haven't been that creeped out since Doom. -Very- nice touch.

Low point: What's with the crouch-jump making you jump higher than a regular jump? I'm not talking about the long jump here. If I walk up to a low crate and try to jump on it, I can't. But, if I crouch in front of it, and then jump, I can make it. Weird. Maybe it's just me. I mean, I guess I could get more air if I crouched and really sprang for it, but in Half-Life the difference between a jump and a crouch-jump is small... just enough to get you on the average crate, apparently.

Another cool product... MP3Spy! Definitely give this one a go and see if your bandwidth is good enough for it. Ever get tired of having the same music to listen to at work day after day? MP3Spy is your answer. Highly reccomended. (Gosh, hope PlanetCrap doesn't read that...)

2/7/99

Doing research for my first level on "the other secret project," I bought and watched two of my favorite films: La Femme Nikita and Point of No Return. No Return is the American remake of Nikita, which is the French original. In a nutshell, it's the story of a deadly little social outcast named Nikita who commits a murder and is caught. The government gives her a second chance, though, training her as a sleeper -- a special operative who lives a normal life, only being called to action when needed. She falls in love and goes through the agony of hiding her secret life from her fiance.

It's interesting to see just how much flavor is lost in the translation, although there are elements in No Return that Nikita could use; mainly some more character development. (That could just be the American take on the Nikita character -- less psychotic and more of a victim.) Nikita is a far better film as far as directing and acting goes, imho. Jean Reno keeps the title as best "Cleaner." Overall, the American version feels corny by comparison... much more Hollywood (like the addition of the exploding hotel) in ways which eliminate some of the story's subtleties. All the classic scenes are there, however. Add to that an all-star cast (Bridget Fonda, Gabriel Byrne, Harvey Kietel) and you have a pretty fun remake.

Expect to see some Nikita references in "the yer-to-be-revealed other secret project." ;)1/26/99

Happy New Year...

Just a quick update here. Been working on the add-on pack for Blood2 lately. Before that, I did a few things for the multiplayer patch and also took some time to visit my folks for the holidays. Next week I'll be moving on to one of Monolith's "super-secret projects" for a while.

Book reccomendation of the moment... Barlowe's Inferno, Wayne D. Barlowe, Morpheus, 1998

What's by my CD player... the latest from Black Tape for a Blue Girl, a tribute album to Dead Can Dance called The Carnival Within, and two from Haujobb... Freeze Frame Reality and Solutions for a Small Planet. All excellent subdued work music.

More later... hope that HTML works...