Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer
Home Directory....\\void\users\innerloop
Last NT Logon.....Wednesday, April 28, 1999 at 16:18

Been seeing a lot in the press lately about the latest buzzword in 3D
engines, the multi-resolution mesh (MRM) or continuous level-of-detail
(CLOD) or whatever you want to call it.  We had intended from the start
to incorporate this into the NOD engine, and after getting back from
GDC and seeing all the demos and talks about it, we finally got inspired
to take that task off the back burner and see how it worked with our
game.

The initial results have been great.  Using a fairly simple method
as described in various academic papers (Hoppe, etc) we incorporated the
LOD calculations into our Maya export plug-in.  Because of the way our
art tech, Anthony Chiang, textures the meshes precisely rather than using
simple projections, the LOD system is able to determine where the actual
significant seams on the models are and preserve them.  Our first tests
on the main player model were able to reduce him from the maximum face 
count of around 1800 all the way down to below 500 with very little
noticeable quality loss until the last few steps.  We're also using the 
LOD system to provide silhouette versions of the models for casting 
shadows and so on.

There was an interesting talk at GDC by Jan Svavorsky from Mucky Foot
where he demonstrated their LOD technology in what seemed to be a very
tasty engine.  He suggested pre-calculating the LOD draw order
periodically rather than re-computing it every frame like some of the
academic algorithms suggest.  This worked great for us on CPU-bound
cards since the cost of all the conditionals to do LOD on-the-fly kills
the performance.  So basically about once per second or when the z-dist
changes significantly, the code goes through the LOD data and computes 
the optimized renderlist based on the objects current z-distance so the
renderer can spew that right to the card at run-time.  The other 
advantage is this generated draw list is suitable for hardware 
transform & lighting in a single batch which will hopefully gain some 
speed on future cards...

Just wanted to share our experiences and encourage other devs to give
it a try, it really is a pretty painless thing to implement.  Ray
Gresko got the basic 'proof of concept' up and running in just a day
or two, and it took a couple more days to fully integrate that basic
algorithm into the actual Maya plug-in and the run-time engine.  Even
the artists, the toughest critics of anything that changes the source
art, seemed pretty happy with the reduction algorithm's results.  Its 
one of those rare engine features that gives more than it takes away,
in this case raw speed and the ability to make 2k poly models without
requiring a TNT2 to run the game.  The only real cost was the extra
RAM to store the collapse information and the per-instance pre-computed
draw list for each model instance... Exporter and run-time computation
times were negligible.

http://research.microsoft.com/users/hhoppe/siggraph96pm/paper.html

Other stuff going on over here -- the Berkeley class is going well,
we've got about 30 people attending.  Some of the material is a bit
dry, there's only so much you can say about DirectInput, but some of
the discussions about game structures and algorithms have been pretty
interesting.  It looks like they are going to offer the course again
next session, so by that time hopefully things will be all tweaked
and tuned so I won't be making PowerPoint slides the night before :)

The weather's getting nicer so we're already planning the 2nd annual
Nihilistic developer's party up here in Marin, so if you're a bay area
game dev. interested in getting together (probably post-E3 though,
first things first), drop me a line, we're building a mailing list.

4/29/99 Update:

Jan Svarovsky (note the correctly spelled last name) sent along a link
to the full GDC presentation including AVIs of the engine and other
cool stuff.  There even seemed to be some additional stuff not shown
at the conference.. Check it out.
 
http://8op.com/ExtremeD/



(File last updated on Thu 29 Apr 1999 at 10:24)