Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer
Home Directory....\\void\users\innerloop
Last NT Logon.....Sunday, November 28, 1999 at 17:09

11/29/99

Hope everyone had a good Thanksgiving.  The Nihilistic offices were
abnormally quiet the last few days since we just hit one of our major
production milestones just before the holiday, so everyone got some
much needed rest.  Except for a few people that came in to get their fix
of either Quake3Test, Messiah Demo or the ever-popular Everquest.  I was
mucking about (no pun intended) with the Urban Chaos demo as well.  Very
similar sort of urban environment to what we are doing in New York and 
London hubs, check it out, its an amazingly small demo in terms of download
size relative to the amount of stuff in there.
 
So what have we all been up to lately?  Glad you asked.  First off,
we did a lot of work "under the hood" so to speak in moving all our
engine code and effects from Glide (which was used for all the earlier
screenshots and demos like E3) to Direct3D (which is our primary API out of
the box).  So you may have noticed that the latest round of screenshots sent
out by Activision were higher resolution than in the past and also (I THINK)
used 32-bit rendering (although when you ship them as JPG its hard to really
differentiate due to the compression loss).  The end result of all the is
screenshots that look pretty much exactly like they did in the past, but 
with the added advantage that they work on lots of different cards now.  So
expect to see a wide variety of hardware in future screenshots and higher
resolutions, etc.  

I must say I was actually surprised by how painlessly the transition went.
It was something I was sort of dreading, since way back on Jedi Knight, I
know Ray had a hell of a time supporting all the quirks of various 3D cards
out at that time.  I think its a feather in the cap of the hardware folks
and the D3D developers that things are a lot better now.  There are still
a few gotchas in there for certain cards, but on 90% of the cards out there
we had no hassles.  I was pretty surprised by this, actually.  I wrote the
first version of the D3D rendering DLL on my own system, which at the time
was a GeForce prototype board under 98.  I figured it wouldn't run on much
else besides maybe TNT2, but I was surprised to find out it ran pretty much
flawlessly on the whole nVidia line, Voodoo3 family, G400, and even came
damn close to running on a Permedia2.  The biggest bit of extra work was
supporting the separate texture memory layout of the Voodoo2, but even that
was only like another half day of fooling around.  So now all that's left
is performance tweaking for specialized stuff like Hardware T&L and texture
compression, and all those bells and whistles.  Oh yeah, we also checked out
the latest version of (what used to be) IPeak from Intel (Its called GPT now
or something like that).  Its pretty cool - you can run the game in its 
normal window and the tool will break the window into 4 panes, one each
for normal, wireframe, overdraw, and untextured modes.  I was surprised it
worked that transparently to the app.  It works on GL as well, neat tool. I
just wish it was able to dig inside the drivers a bit more and let you
know what was happening internally, bit I guess that's a job for each hardware
maker more than for Intel.

Beyond that, Ingar's been doing a lot of work on the in-game cinematic camera
system.  This is really tricky stuff, getting cool camera angles from 
arbitrarily placed actors having a conversation.  But when its all working,
the results are really cool.  Together with the lip-syncing of the characters
that Jake is adding more of each day, the characters really seem to be
lifelike.  Still quite a few modes to be added, but even with the stuff 
working now its really immersive.  Yves is plugging away at all the hard
stuff - implementing tons of disciplines and AI modes needed to make the
game not only pretty but also fun.  Also still working on a few editor
features here and there to improve the lighting in the worlds, most 
notably to get the staticly-placed objects to cast nice shadows into the 
world so they seem more solidly part of the surrounding geometry.


(File last updated on Mon 29 Nov 1999 at 12:27)