Account Name:  Ruben Cabrera
Email address: rubenc@3drealms.com
----------
Just came back from E3.  This is my first E3 so let me just start by saying the show is huge!  There is no human in the world the could absorb all that was there.  I found myself targeting specific games rather than just trying to see it all.  First I would like to say that Half-life looks absolutely awesome, awesome, awesome!  The scripted sequences are awe inspiring and will set new standards for first person games.  Another title that caught my eye was trespasser by DreamWorks interactive.  You are probably not going to find a title that has paid more attention to physics.  The physics in the game are realistic, super realistic!  I must also mention at the risk of sounding bias, 3D Realms is the King Of First person games.  With titles such as Duke 4 ever, Prey and Max Payne, I would challenge anyone to say otherwise.  It was very exciting seeing the back room demos of all those products.  George Broussard and Paul Schuuytema  did an excellent job of showing off the games.  I have to say all three titles were awe inspiring and more importantly looked fun to play.  I think that is the most important factor.  You can have all the physics and scripted and special effects in the world but it doesn't guarantee it will be fun to play.  I thought the characters in Blood 2 were awesome.  They are using motion capture for a lot of the animation for there characters and it shows.  The movements are incredibly real.  I spent a lot of time at the Sin and Diakatana booths.  I really enjoyed Sin, although I felt like they were holding back there best stuff.  Everything I saw besides an interestingly cool destruction effect and a shooting gallery using the sniper rifle, looked like it could have been done as a quake TC.  I think I should have stayed longer because I heard a rumor that  someone saw a driveable vehicle.  This is not meant to be an insult by any means because I think Sin is going to have some incredible never before seen gameplay.  The graphics and level design were cool but I saw little in terms of new tech or special effects.   The same goes for Diakatana.  I also believe they were holding back.  I have learned never to underestimate your enemy, I know Sin and Diakatana have a card up there sleeve, I am curious to see if its going to be an Ace!  I think the only Unreal licensed engine game shown was Klingon Honor Guard.  From what I saw the art and characters of the game were strikingly correct to its Movie counterpart.  There is a certain satisfaction multiplaying as a klingon holding a Bat'telh.  Like Sin and Diakatana I also felt that it seemed they could have shown more stuff that distinguishes them from just replacing graphics.  That's all for now, more tomorrow.

And just remember - Always Bet on Duke!!!!!!!!!
	
    