Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: scott.rudi     Plan Last Modified: 08/26/1999 10:20:03 PST

Real Name: Scott Rudi
Handle: Captain America
Title: Designer
Project: Tribes Extreme


August 19th, 1999

Well, this is my first .plan file - let's see if I can mess it up.

First a little about my self: I started working here at Dynamix in '94 while finishing up my English degree (previously I knew only crude gestures and animalistic grunts - thank goodness the U of Oregon has fairly lenient entrance requirements). Over the years, I've clawed my way to the designer position here on Tribes Extreme.

I started playing Tribes early in Beta and haven't really ever stopped (in fact, I'm playing right now - BOOM! another Sofa King down!). What really drew me in was the teamwork required and the freedom of movement the jetpack allows. Plus, the fact that I can log in quickly and play for a few minutes at a time without a big hassle. It also helps that Tribes is ALT+TAB friendly, thus allowing me unlimited goof-off time. Muahahaha!

Games I play besides Tribes (in order of obsessiveness):
Warbirds   (yes, I am a flight-sim junkie and I'm proud of it)
EverQuest   (Dwarven Pride! 17th lvl Dwarven warrior "Rubble")
Civilization 2   (the greatest strat game ever created - "By God, we beat penecillin!")
Rainbow 6   (despite the online latency)
MAX
Hidden and Dangerous


I'm working on mission building and scripting on Tribes Extreme (TX) now that the overall design is done. Lincoln is doing some great AI work for the single-player stuff, and it should be a lot of fun for newbies and vets alike.

I'm also going through a lot of Open Call map and skin submissions. Everything's looking great! I'm excited to get our community involved with our product. We're considering implementing some things that will REALLY get the users into making Tribes their own game...

As for ScottY (i.e. Cornboy) leaving, as a co-worker I'm bummed and as a friend I'm really bummed. We'll all miss him around here and I hope he does great. The only thing I'm concerned about is that he'll become a Giants fan instead of a true A's believer...


That's it for now!

-Scott "CapAm" Rudi