Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: scott.rudi     Plan Last Modified: 09/02/1999 12:13:38 PST

Real Name: Scott Rudi
Handle: Captain America
Title: MASTER Designer
Project: Tribes Extreme


September 2nd, 1999

Well, looks like the original plan file finally got up. I blame Analog Kid for the delay and think he spends _WAY_ too much time lounging naked in our team area. If I could only cut down on how many gladiator movies I watch each day, I'd have time to tell him to get to work.

Tribes Extreme is going well. We've got a ton of new missions in the works for new gameplay online, and the campaign is really starting to shape up. Jesse R. is kicking some ass getting the scoring and mission to mission issues working. Mitch is also doing great with the training missions. They should be really informative and pretty fun - the best thing about them is they'll cut down the number of "How do I repair myself?" questions newbies ask in online games. Blah.

Pressure from Congress and concerned mothers has prompted me to begin the redesign of Extreme - we'll be taking out all the weapons. Instead, players will frantically jump around the mission maps hugging members of the opposite team. Hopefully, since the perception is that you're all mindless zombies that will do whatever you see in a game, you'll all begin to do the same. 

Hmmmm... I wonder how many people mindlessly HAD to fight Carl Weathers after seeing Rocky I and II... Of course, we all had to fight Mr. T after Rocky III - never mind.


Oooh Oooh! Almost forgot to tell ya - RUDIVISION is coming soon! Now YOU will be able to see the life and times of the fabulous Captain America at "work" during the week. That's right - I have stolen the webcam from the Starsiege area - er, I have AQUIRED a webcam via legal means and am setting it up in my office. Soon you too will see my striking resemblance to Fabio. More on this later.



I'm looking forward to the weekend! My wife Namiko and I will be travelling down to the Bay Area to visit my folks. We should hit the A's game on Sunday, so look for me in the crowd - I'll be the one in the giant orange sombrero. Cornboy will be joining us at the game in an attempt to teach my dad that Coors light is NOT beer. Pray for us.
<attn Coors empire: please do not send your corporate thugs to beat us sensless for the above remarks. Thank you>




-Scott "CapAm" Rudi