Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: blake.hutchins     Plan Last Modified: 09/30/1999 15:57:36 PST



blake.hutchins.plan


9.17.99



So, kids, here we are in the depths of developing TRIBES Extreme.


Things are busy as sin on the writing end, which has led to a delay in completing the
much demanded WEAPONS & TECHNOLOGY packet. I'm chipping away at D-back's draft a little more each
day, but it's slow going, I'm afraid. Sorry about the wait. The packet will answer a number of
"universe technology"questions folks have been asking, so I think it'll be worth the wait.


On the other fronts, I'm having a ton of fun with Extreme. In addition to all the cool story-related
stuff, we're working on a TRIBES comic to be released online. It'll be called OATH: The Bronze Skull,
and will set up the events that underlie the campaign story shipping with the game. Yours truly is
the writer, the ever-talented Robert Caracol is doing the pencils, and Ian Christy (known to the
Starsiege contingent as "Plague Dog") is responsible for the coloring. So far I can say this is an
absolutely AWESOME project. I'm having a blast - writing for the comic book format is way different
than writing completely text-based stories. The completed pages are just amazing, and they really
bring a new perspective to the TRIBES setting.


As you may have seen, I'll be appearing at a chat this Friday celebrating the one year anniversary
of the Sons of Thunder tribe. These cats have a completely boss site with a dramatic design and
very impressive cultural detail. It feels authentic, and the SoT are a gracious presence in the community,
so check it out. I'll bring an original story featuring some of the SoT principals and perhaps offering
some hints into the TRIBES Extreme storyline. See you there!


On the Starsiege side, I've been fielding a ton of questions about the timeline. In response, I've sent
Kamosa text files of the timelines for the Human and Cybrid campaigns. Hopefully these will answer
most questions.


Outside the building stuff: the Hood to Coast relay race was pretty amazing, one of the most incredible experiences
I've ever had. The Dynamix TechNo Prisoners team showed a lot of grit and resolve. We started on
Friday, August 27 at 2:30 p.m. and finished somewhat blearily at about 6 p.m. the following evening. My middle leg
(Don't even THINK it, VanSmack!) fell at about 4:00 a.m., somewhere west of Portland. Running through
hilly back roads in the dark was surreal, especially when you saw the bobbing pinpricks of runners'
flashlights trailing off into the distance. Weirdly beautiful, and the distances gave me a new appreciation
for how much those tribals run! Maybe we should do motion capture for TRIBES 2 that shows the warriors
panting and trying to rub out cramps if they run too far without resting. I look forward to running the
Hood to Coast again next year. And for those of you who came in late, the HtC is a 196-mile long relay
race that goes from Mount Hood east of Portland to the town of Seaside on the Oregon coast. Teams
consist of twelve members, each of whom runs three legs for an average total of sixteen miles per runner.


Well, I see it's time to go vacuum the fleas off D-back, so I'll sign off.
Everyone stay cool and have fun!


HEXABOLIC



7.2.99



Fourth of July coming up out here, and I'm seeing Captain America skins on the in-house servers.


Coincidence? I don't think so.


Things are busy on this end as TRIBES Extreme is moving along with increasing omentum.
I'm working the story and text angle on the game, and it should be interesting, offering a grittier
look at the TRIBES setting and giving the player a real opportunity to practice the fine art of
command. In other developments, I'm working on expanding the TRIBES Universe. The plan now is
to release a new background pack every month. The tentative schedule is to put out The FIRETRUCE
next week. Then by August, you'll see WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY. Thereafter, a packet for each of the
Four Great Tribes, THE IMPERIAL LEGATE, IMMORTALS, BIODERMS, ALIEN RACES, THE FRAYED, BIRA MARDUK,
GRIEVER BANDS, and a WILDERZONE STARMAP. I'm looking forward to putting these together. If we get
enough input from you folks, we may expand on other parts of the background as well. Aside from these
setting expansions, there'll be more stories to set up the storyline for TRIBES 2 -- maybe even some
web-based comics, a project about which I'm particularly excited. In all cases, we'll show you more
about the epic TRIBES background. I've been talking to some of the Tribes out there, and I plan to
incorporate some player storylines into the background where possible, so stay in touch!


On the Starsiege side, I've had less time, but I still plan to complete the Writer's Guide and
the novella, so stay tuned.


Keeping busy training for the Hood to Coast, a 195 mile relay race that takes place at the end of
August. Dynamix is fielding a team called "TechNo Prisoners." Should be a blast, if I can just 
continue to avoid injury. If the race goes well, I'll shoot for the Portland Marathon in October.
All you tribals out there: keep checking your shoes! When you're running a lot, it doesn't take much
time to put 500 miles on those soles!


In other news, personal writing's going pretty well. I'm fortunate enough to be in a writers' group with
a few Nebula winners, including the guy who just won this year's Nebula and Stoker awards, a
Mr. Bruce Holland Rogers. If you haven't read his stuff yet, check it out. Not for the casual reader, but
very cool nevertheless. On my end, I'm working on the rewrites for a couple of projects that I hope
to sell by the end of the year. Sometimes I have to be reminded that there's more to write about than the 
wilderzone. Heh.


Stay cool, everyone.


HEXABOLIC







5.18.99
Hello, all:


I'm the Writer on Tribes and Starsiege, the guy responsible for overseeing the Universe
and story angle of things -- with the able assistance of everybody's favorite D-back, natch.


We're expanding the Starsiege Universe in a big way. As an example, I've been working on
the Tribes Universe Writer's Guide, which is completed and should be posted on the website
now. This doc will provide a lot more detail about the scope of the Universe and
Tribal society, lay out the tribal calendar, and answer some questions about the Empire and
its relationship with the Tribes. We'll also post Writer's Guidelines to help those of you
who want to write fan fiction for the Universe.


Other projects include a Writer's Datapak on the BioDerms, the new force entering
the Tribes Universe, and a number of stories which will illuminate the intrigue brewing behind
the scenes. I envision releasing a series of Datapaks focusing on specific parts of the Universe,
and I encourage you folks out there to let me know what trips your trigger; I'm more than happy
to explore the areas you're interested in. Send your background ideas to me at blake.hutchins@dynamix.com.


HEXABOLIC aka "Spiff Cat"