
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: henrik
Plan modified: Thu Apr 13 18:24:59 2000


6:29 PM 4/13/00

About 9 weeks ago, Switz'n'Eva Productions Inc, started 
development on their latest project, Project Tiny. Tiny 
will feature real-time light reflections, advanced sound 
output and most likely a highly sophisticated DirectSmell 
interface. Yours truly also have high hopes for the dynamic 
and very strong AI functionality that the code base supports.

A spokesperson for Project Tiny say that the estimated 
development cycle will be 40 weeks, or 9 months and given 
the current schedule, there is nothing that prevents a 
timely release. 

An early estimate says that Project Tiny will be going Gold 
on November 22, 2000. Inspite of demands from the public, 
there will be no playable demo out before that date. 
Eventually a few screenshots might be presented to the 
general public as development continues.

So far, there is nothing in the design that prevents 
Project Tiny from being a multiplayer game, but this 
might be subject to change as more is publicly known 
about the Project.

Also, at this early stage, no base requirements are known. 
The production team estimates that the game might require 
a few patches after the initial release, and lets us know 
that initially the game might require a lot of attention to 
run smoothly. However, the production company has a firm
belief that the final result will have a positive result 
on the global community.


:-) 

/Switz


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
8:10 PM 4/5/00

My head hurts. Yesterday, I found a VCR tape in my cube, starring 
Richard Simmons, called "Dance your Pants Off - An Aerobic Concert". 
It's featuring such aerobic hits as "Celebration", "She works Hard 
For The Money", "Total Eclipse of the Heart" and "The Rose". 

Ok, I grant you all that I'm not all that into aerobic workout, 
but how in the blessed name of Bad Language can you do aerobic 
workout to "The Rose"? 

Come to think of it... I don't want to know. Do not tell me and 
do NOT send any pictures or movies showing this off, ok? There's a 
limit to what I can take. I have one tape showing it already, and 
I do not intend to watch it.

Someone, somewhere asked me who my favorite smurf is. That's 
simple: GodSmurf, the Blue Belgian Bastard. Thanks, dude.

To get this mildly on track: Anachronox is exciting. Really exciting. 
I'm currently working on optimizing the way we load and start up our 
in-engine cinematics. If we get them to start off just a tad smoother, 
it might elevate the game experience a few more notches.

The 3D sound system is now operational, with a few more niceness-tweaks
left to implement, and hardware occlusion will be supported, inspite of
Aureal's Chapter 11. 

The programming team has hit a wonderfully effective pace and there's
light at the end of the tunnel, so...

Things will be good and life will be beautiful. 

/Switz




---------------------------------------------------------------------------
9:04 PM 3/30/00

Ahh... Finally!

After 6..uhm..7.uhm..many months here at ION Storm, the time
has finally come for me to hammer out my First Ever .plan file.

I am a programmer. I work on Anachronox. I've boldly hacked new 
holes in the original QuakeII code. I've put in a quite excellent 
sound library by the name of Miles Sound System (Jeff Roberts 
rule!), I've put in a flexible and cool game database and hooked 
it up to the actual stats and inventories of the characters. I've 
got our in-game music to work through Microsoft's DirectMusic 
and...uhm...

uhm... 

...Hey, guys, help me out here.. I've done something more, haven't I?

Oh, yeah, I just recently infected everyone in the Anox code-corner 
with my fantastic cold, I've discovered Reese's (sp?) chocolate-covered 
peanut butter treats for the first time, ( Yes, that's right. Last 
Tuesday was the first time I tried one of those. See explanation below) 
and I do my best to spread the Gospel according to Lemmy at the office. 
No one around here seem to appreciate Motorhead (the band, not the racing 
game), though, but my mission is NOT over!

Also, I have to admit, I'm from Forreign. Forreign is a country that 
lies outside of the Unites States, (and noone ever really heard about, 
_anyway_, so why bother trying to remember the name of that silly country?) 
and therefore I go by the name of Switz here. (They don't have Reese's 
chocolates over there in Switz)

That's all for tonight... Take care.


