Login: jonathan       			Name: JOnathan
Plan:
9-13-2000
Episode IV: Gravity always wins

Wow, it has been over a month since my last dose of .plan happiness.  To be honest not much
has happened since then.  Marcy has moved into the Space Age Bachelor Pad.  She is one cool
chick.  She hangs well with Denny and I.  Lots of props for her.  

Winamp 3 madness is ramping up.  Den Den and I have been working on the new W3 section of
NSDN.  Good stuff. Check it out.
  
I have been playing around with the pre-beta for a couple of weeks.  It is better than good
and will only increase in its coolness.  Can't wait for the rest of the world to get their
hands on it.

The non-stop partying continues.  I think that I might be slowing down a bit though.  Getting
old and spending way too much.  Damn gravity always keeping me down.  Anyway, I have to get psyched
for Brennan's b-day bash and our post-halloween shindig.  They should both own up to be the proverbial
bomb.

I might go to Vegas a couple of times next month.  At the very least, I will be going in
December so that I can try for my chance at crossing over into the ever elusive porn
industry.

No real female prospects at the moment but the search continues.  Thinking of changing my title from
Techical Writer to something sexier.  Suave Individual should get me a good deal of clout.

If any of you guys reading this are familiar with the SF area maybe you could clue me into some
of the cooler lounges.  I am getting tired of all of those loud clubs.  I need for the women to
hear what I have to say if I am to seduce them correctly.  Mail your suggestions to jonathan@winamp.com

And, as always, read crudeness.com

 
8-9-2000
Episode III: Double plus good

When last we saw young Jonathan he was preparing for a major happening at his new domicile.
Two weeks have now passed.  The party has come and gone.  The haze is clearing.  And now....

Greetings everyone.  I have finally stepped out of my stupor long enough to bang out another
obscenely popular .plan report.  Last week, I actually had a response from a very sultry
admirer.  I love it when women come on to me via email.  Keep it up.

Lets see, what is up in my life.  Hmmmmmmm.  Well, Denny and I just purchased a washer and
dryer.  Now our clothes are fresh and clean.  People are beginning to respond favorably to
us once again.  I think that this is a good thing.  

We are eagerly anticipating the arrival of our third.   Soon the space age bachelor pad will
know the joy of its first live-in female.  Oh what perils will ensue!!!!!!  Stay tuned.

Things seem to be progressing well with Adrienne (another great pay off from the 
party). She is quick with the Simpson's quotes and has already shown me the best video store
in the city.  Quite a remarkable girl if you ask me.

I suppose that I should mention something about work for those of you who read this to get
keep up with the inner workings of Nullsoft.  Lets see......uhhhhh, things are good.  NSDN
is getting a good bit of content flowing into it.  Thanks to the efforts of Denny and 
myself.  All of you developers should look to the new Code Vault for sample code for your
projects.

Oh well, that seems to be enough for now.  I will let you guys know when the real excitement
starts.  (I will be getting my bed shipped to me next week).

Until then, keep the love alive and remember to read crudeness.com

Later.

jonathan@winamp.com
  

7-19-2000
Episode II:  My Life is a Mentos Commercial

More .plan goodness.  Our party prep is well underway.  Soon there will be
inflatable furniture, porn music, vaseline, and some form of snack (perhaps chips?).
All in all, it feels as though the geek debauchery level will be running high.  Denny and
are planning a pre-party party on friday as a dry/wet run.  If you can find where we live,
you are invited.  Of course you must bring no less than four easy women dressed in school
girl attire in order to get in the door.

The roomate search is finally over.  Denny and I, will soon be opening the love nest
to its newest member.  Everyone please give a warm welcome to Denver-girl Marcy.  She is 
currently detoxing herself from a heinous Dave Mathews addiction (I won't allow that 
shit in my house) and reviewing old Grandizer tapes (on Denny's orders).  She should
be acclimated soon and will be joining us in August.

By the way, you are free to send me e-love at jonthan@winamp.com



 


7-7-2000
Episode I:  The Arrival

Here I is.  This is my first plan update so please be gentle.  In the past month I have
moved from New York to North Carolina and then across the country to start this job at
Nullsoft.  Needless to say that I am still trying to acclimate myself to my new digs.

Denny and the crew are trying their best to make me party like the rock star that I know
I can be and since I know that I am too old to die young I have been giving myself fully
to the party gods.

Speaking of parties, Denny and I are having a rager at our new den of iniquity on July 22nd.
All who read this are automatically invited to what will surely be the best party that I
have thrown this month.

A big cheer to my buddy Rob who just married his first asian chick.  I hope that they will
find much happiness in the days ahead.

That is all the love that I can give for now.  Keep checking for more updates.
Same Bat plan. Same Bat URL.


 
