*** MumboJumbo's Finger Server

User name: jkootar
Plan modified: Tue Sep 11 07:39:17 2001



      The game is looking amazing. I can't believe we're pulling this off in this amount of time. Every build is yeilding something new, every time I do a get from SourceSafe, something is updated, and the game looks more and more finished. It's kinda an industry standard that the biggest change to time ratio is the time between alpha and beta, but that doesn't really hit you until you actually see it happen. I think about the stuff we had a month ago, and i'm like, bah, forget about that; look what's going on NOW. DAMN. I've never been so impressed before. 

      The mods that people are gonna make with this are gonna be CRAZY. Vengance is EXTREMELY powerful. For all you aspiring modmakers, I highly encourage you (upon securing yourself a copy), take the character tags into vengance and start figuring them out. There are straightforward ways to make characters, and then there are ways that are not so straightforward to do some REALLY amazing characters. Matchett (Reanimator) and Richard (Iggy Popped) have really been pushing Vengance well into directions that I don't think Andrew even intended. 

      While I'm here, I HAVE to say that drum and bass MC's suck. They are miserable wastes of air and the muck up the actual track. I have this phat )EI3( track, and an Andy C one (sour, of course), and these horrible MC's WON'T shut up. If you're a dnb MC, do us all a favor and chill out. Stop screaming "lighta lighta" and "come selekta" and all the stupid whatever that rhymes with that. Come selekta. HAHAHAHHAAH whatever. 

      Anyways...

      So the team is in a weird sort of overtime mode right now. Work hours have been put to a mandatory time, and people have gone back to realizing that sleep at night tends to be a good thing in terms of productivity. I know there's gotta be some formula for that (amount of sleep = %effieciency). That ties into the whole "work smarter, not harder" thing. I'm being all contradictory, of course, considering I stayed here, but hey, I spent most of my time chatting with my gf, so it's all good!

      In any case, like I was saying earlier, Vengance has gotten REALLY powerful. In fact, I don't think there's a more powerful character editor anywhere (I'm not trying to be boastful or anything). It's gonna take some experimenting to get right, once people get it in their hands, and I hope that we can provide some basic support in the way of tutorials and stuff (i've had one in the works for MONTHS now, hee hee), so that should get people off to a running start. 

      Man, you guys are in for a treat. The levels really kick ass too. I was playing through it this morning, and they're really neat. The whole detail map thing is just amazing. I got to make my first colormap the other day and let me tell you how neat that was. All you mapmakers are in for a treat as well. I hope you guys have a good time with this. Even with the short time constraint we had, exploring the boundaries of these tools oh my god the world trade center