Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: scott.youngblood     Plan Last Modified: 03/08/1999 14:48:47 PST

Real Name: Scott Youngblood
Nickname: CornBoy!
Job: Lead Designer
Project: Starsiege Tribes


3.8.99

Woo Woo!  We got Beer!  After months of pleading for beer to arrive in 
the mail we've finally got some!  A special Thanks to DR Jeep, Qui9 and the public
beta team.  DR Jeep sent us some $$$ so we could buy some good local brews, 
Qui9 and the public beta team actually sent us a boatload of Rogue ale brews.

THANKS!

The Voting continues: Update as of 2:43pm pst.

Yes votes - 134 in favor of the new map
No votes - 297 against the new map

Keep the votes and comments flowing in.

I'll be out on Thurdsay - Sunday attending Extreme Annihilation in Dallas.  I'll
do a plan update on Monday the 15th with the final vote count.


3.4.99

Ok, 

I'm the 'Sissy Nancy Boy' that changed the Broadside map. :)  I and other 
dev team members felt that there were way too many stalemates happening
on the original version of Broadside.  So I changed it to be a little 
easier to grab the flag.  It seems that are a few vocal voices out there
who do NOT like the new map.  So... I'll leave it up to YOU the community
to decide the ultimate fate of that map.

Email me with your vote with your preference in the subject line:
(only 1 vote per person please)

YES - you like the new map
NO  - you DON'T like the new map

If I receive a resounding majority of people who want that map changed back 
I'll change it.

Voting ends in 1 week on Thursday the 14th of March.

CornBoy!


1.27.99

The response I received from people on my request for feedback was great!
Thanks for taking the time to send in your comments, they will help us
shape future patches and even our feature list for Tribes 2.  Your 
comments are greatly appreciated.

If you have any additional comments feel free to send them to me at:

scott.youngblood@dynamix.com

P.S. I know many people really really want the OpenGL update NOW!  Don't 
worry, we're working on it... as soon as we have a version that is ready
to be pounded on we will let you have it.

Also, if you have any specific mission criticisms or ideas let me know 
and I may be able to fix them for the next patch release.  I've already
tweaked many of the missions that had play balance problems, but I would
like to hear what you have to say.

Scott