*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Fri Nov 13 18:36:51 1998

11/13/1998 - Part 2
----
And my SECOND big news post for the day...

I finally got the ok to go ahead with putting together
a Linux version of Lithtech and the LT games, beginning
first with creating a server.  Sometime in the near 
future, I'll be trying to put together a team to handle
the Linux port - stay tuned for more info!  I'm also open
to porting to Solaris and other UNIX boxen; the port 
will be as clean as possible so as to work on as 
many architectures as possible.  :)

I wonder if I can come up with any more cool news for
this evening... :)

--Loki
------------------
11/13/1998
----
Well, been a while since an update, and even longer since
a REAL update. :)  So here's a lot of news for ya!

First off, the mundane.  I'm back off the Blood 2 team
and back where I belong; the Lithtech team.  I'm once
again the point-of-contact for all the outside developers
and licensees.  So if you're confused about who to contact
for technical issues, it's me again. :)  (Then again, most
people either just e-mailed lithtech@lith.com or kept
mailing me even when I wasn't the point-of-contact...)

Secondly... the more exciting!

I'm now the point of contact for people wanting to do mods
for the Lithtech games (Blood 2 and Shogo).  Of course,
the source code to neither has been released yet, but
Shogo's source and tools are impending pretty soon!  If 
you'd spoken to me before about doing a large mod for Shogo
or Blood 2, now might be a good time to re-establish 
contact. :)

And as a little 'starter' for this, I've created two
mailing lists for Lithtech game mod authors!  One is for
Shogo mods, the other for Blood 2 mods.

To subscribe to either list, send e-mail to:
listar@lists.lith.com

With 'subscribe ' as the subject (minus the
quotes, of course) where  is either shogo-mod
(for the Shogo mod list) or b2-mod (for the Blood 2 mod
list).  If you have problems subscribing or generally need
help with the mailing list software, contact me at either
my normal work address (jeremy@lith.com)
or my mailing list address (loki@lithtech.com).

Questions about anything in this .plan file?  About LT
mod authoring?  Contact me! :)

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/