
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Mon Nov 23 12:28:20 1998

11/23/1998
----
First off, a big thanks to all those who've sent in e-mail
supporting the Linux port. :)  The server port is underway.
I'm currently working with egcs instead of g++, and I am
also trying to decide if I want the server to run background
and lack a control panel, or use X11 and run with a panel
similar to the Windows one.  I'm thinking of creating two
binaries, one that acts as a daemon, and one as an X11 app.

Secondly, and the more important piece of news...

The Shogo source code and editing tools will be released
on Wednesday, November 25th. :)  Cool, huh?  Marketing
swore me to secrecy on what the contents are, other than
that it's everything we promised to include AND a couple
extras we hadn't promised before.

So, two days until the release!  Keep your eye on my .plan
file, and on Planetshogo! :)

--Loki
------------------
11/16/1998
----
There seems to have been some confusion about the Linux
port, so let me clarify. :)

The Linux port is not something that Monolith is
'officially' supporting.  Before you freak out, what that
means is that once it's done, it's not something that our
tech support e-mail or phone folks would be able to help
with.  Besides, be fair, most of the folks who'd run it on
Linux are probably better at troubleshooting Linux than
most phone tech support teams!

BUT Monolith also recognizes the importance of Linux to the 
multiplayer gaming community (they should, after almost two 
years with a Linux fanatic on the staff... [grin]).  The 
port would be primarily user-community supported, though I 
would also handle tech support for it.  (Similar to Quake 
2's Linux ports, which are not 'officially' supported by 
the publisher that I'm aware of.)  We also think that our 
licensees would appreciate the ability - if they so choose 
- to port their games to Linux and have the support of the 
user community there.  Of course, instead of making them 
port the engine, it's a good idea for us to do it... just 
plain good developer relations.  :)

Basically, what I have gotten the green light to do is to 
organize a more in-depth look at the best way to port the 
client, and gotten official recognition for the server port 
project I have wanted to do for a while (and had already 
started as a spare-time thing).

Server is a higher priority than client because it's almost 
a no-brainer to port.  The networking code (to a minor 
extent) and some of the memory handling code needs to be 
rewritten, but Mike has written the engine very portable 
and so it's something that can be tackled easily.  The 
client will take more effort to port, and is therefore not 
a solo task...especially since I've got other things 
besides doing a Linux client port full-time to worry 
about!  (Like handling developer relations, being the point-
of-contact for mod authors...)

As I said, the green light has been given to evaluate the 
best way to do a Linux client port (user community support, 
outside contractor, etc.)... but the server port can be 
done right now.

This means that we'll be concentrating on the server and 
getting it done before we tackle the client.  That's the 
part of the announcement that many people seem to be 
unclear on, and I apologize if I was a bit unclear in my 
earlier .plan update. :)

Anyway, hope that clarifies. :)  If people have any 
specific questions, feel free to e-mail me.

As a side note... keep your eyes peeled for some really
exciting Shogo mod-related announcements from several
groups soon!  (Geez, I'm starting to sound like Jason,
hinting at upcoming events...)

In other news, the shogo-mod mailing list is really
seeing some traffic; looks like people are pretty excited
about doing mods for this game. :)

Anyway, back to work...

--Loki
------------------
11/13/1998 - Part 2
----
And my SECOND big news post for the day...

I finally got the ok to go ahead with putting together
a Linux version of Lithtech and the LT games, beginning
first with creating a server.  Sometime in the near 
future, I'll be trying to put together a team to handle
the Linux port - stay tuned for more info!  I'm also open
to porting to Solaris and other UNIX boxen; the port 
will be as clean as possible so as to work on as 
many architectures as possible.  :)

I wonder if I can come up with any more cool news for
this evening... :)

--Loki
------------------
11/13/1998
----
Well, been a while since an update, and even longer since
a REAL update. :)  So here's a lot of news for ya!

First off, the mundane.  I'm back off the Blood 2 team
and back where I belong; the Lithtech team.  I'm once
again the point-of-contact for all the outside developers
and licensees.  So if you're confused about who to contact
for technical issues, it's me again. :)  (Then again, most
people either just e-mailed lithtech@lith.com or kept
mailing me even when I wasn't the point-of-contact...)

Secondly... the more exciting!

I'm now the point of contact for people wanting to do mods
for the Lithtech games (Blood 2 and Shogo).  Of course,
the source code to neither has been released yet, but
Shogo's source and tools are impending pretty soon!  If 
you'd spoken to me before about doing a large mod for Shogo
or Blood 2, now might be a good time to re-establish 
contact. :)

And as a little 'starter' for this, I've created two
mailing lists for Lithtech game mod authors!  One is for
Shogo mods, the other for Blood 2 mods.

To subscribe to either list, send e-mail to:
listar@lists.lith.com

With 'subscribe ' as the subject (minus the
quotes, of course) where  is either shogo-mod
(for the Shogo mod list) or b2-mod (for the Blood 2 mod
list).  If you have problems subscribing or generally need
help with the mailing list software, contact me at either
my normal work address (jeremy@lith.com)
or my mailing list address (loki@lithtech.com).

Questions about anything in this .plan file?  About LT
mod authoring?  Contact me! :)

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/
























