*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Wed Nov 25 19:53:09 1998


11/25/1998 - Part 2
----
A couple things about the tools release:

* I've had reports of problems with the Photoshop plugin.
  Please, don't report any more yet.  I'm going to look
  at the Photoshop plugin to see what might cause this
  once I get back from my Thanksgiving holiday.
* There is a known UI quirk in DEdit where if you do
  'Create New Project', you will always get a message
  box saying that it can't load OBJECT.DLL.  Ignore this.
  Close the project, and copy OBJECT.LTO from wherever you
  unpacked the Shogo resources to into your new directory.
  However, you might find it easier initially to build
  within the Shogo project itself.  (Load the RIOT.DEP
  file that is under wherever you unpacked Shogo to.)
* VERY IMPORTANT!!  (And this IS in the README, but
  people have ignored it.)  You need to unpack not only
  SHOGO.REZ, but ALSO SHOGOP.REZ and SHOGOP2.REZ - either
  unpack them into the same directory as Shogo itself
  (better for editing), or unpack them into two directories
  named SHOGOP and SHOGOP2 under your Shogo root.  Shogo
  will run either way, but unpacking all into one directory
  makes it easier to edit.  Once all are unpacked, you can
  delete them to save space; Shogo will run out of the
  derez'd directory.

I'm going to be away from a computer for most (if not all)
of Thanksgiving Day, and I will be out of town visiting
some friends in Portland most of the rest of the weekend.
As a result, I will NOT be around to answer e-mails, though
I will try to at least check in on my lithtech.com address
to monitor the mailing lists.  But don't expect my more
usual speed of response. :)

Hope that helps, and happy editing!  And happy Turkey-day,
too.

--Loki
------------------
11/25/1998
----
Ok, I can finally detail what exactly will be in the source
and tools that will be released a little later today. :)

Tools:
* DEdit, the world editor and general editing environment.
* ModelEdit, the model tweaking tool.
* LithRez, the program for rezing and derezing files.
* A document describing all the Shogo objects and what they 
  do and how to use them.
* A sort of general Lithtech .HLP file.
* A 3DS -> ABC command-line convertor, which takes a 
  sequence of 3DS files and makes a mesh-deformed ABC 
  animation.
* A 3DSMAX plugin allowing you to export from 3DSMAX to ABC.
* A 3DSMAX plugin allowing you to use Lithtech .DTX texture
  files directly in 3DSMAX.
* A Photoshop plugin allowing you to load and save Lithtech
  .DTX texture files.

Source:
* The client-side source code.
* The server-side source code.
* All necessary headers.
* The source to the standalone server(!!)
* A compiled binary of our Gamespy communication library,
  needed for the standalone server.

Remember, Monolith is not 'officially' supporting this, so
please don't spam the developers with a lot of 'how do I'
e-mails.  We DO have the mod author mailing list, which
Monolith people (mainly me) are on.  Subscribing to the
mod list is quite easy, and it will let you have a faster
response time as a fellow mod author might know the 
answer to your question and reply faster than a Monolith
person, buried under work, may be able to. :)

To subscribe, simply send a message to listar@lists.lith.com
with the subject 'subscribe shogo-mod' (without the quotes)
and it will do it for you.  Or if you're reading this in
HTML from plans.lith.com, just click on the link below and hit 'send' on the mail message it generates. :)

HTML: Subscribe me to the Shogo mod list!

Enjoy!

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/