
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Thu Dec 10 13:03:07 1998


12/07/1998
----
A quick apology to anyone who's been waiting on e-mail from
me for something; I was out sick yesterday (whatever the
flu is that's going around, DON'T catch it, believe me).
I'm still trying to catch up.  If you haven't heard from
me by the end of the day, I may have lost your note in the
pile of e-mail I had to dig through.

And as a side note, no, the 'Loki Entertainment' that wants
to do Linux ports of commercial games is NOT, despite what
people might think, connected to me in any way whatsoever.
I'll probably have trouble convincing people of that since I
have a reputation as a die-hard Linux supporter, but I swear
it's true.  I hadn't known they existed until a while back
when I spoke to the head of the company for unrelated 
business reasons.  Still, I can't help but root for 'em and
hope that it goes well... I'd love to see Linux become a 
viable gaming platform. :)

--Loki
------------------
12/07/1998
----
Whee!  Ok, a couple things.

First, thanks to the nice folks at Logitech, I have some
information on the Logitech wheel mice: if you are running
Win98 and have a Logitech mouse, you can terminate the
EM_EXEC program (the little Systray Logitech utility) and
Win98 will take control of the Mouse wheel and it will
work under DInput.

** THIS REQUIRES MOUSEWARE 8.3 **

I'll double-check the range on the wheel a little later 
and write up a different rangebind line for binding to 
the Logitech mousewheel if needed.  Win95 folks (like 
myself) are kinda still SOL, but I'm looking into a 
workaround.

And for my second bit of news in this .plan update, a
status report on the Linux/UNIX port (whoohoo!).

I've decided to be a little bit anal about clean code in
the port anywhere possible.  This means that while I'm doing
the main porting work on a RedHat Linux box using egcs, I'm
ALSO trying to make sure that things will compile under 
SunOS 5.5 as well.  (Since SunOS 5.5 and Linux are pretty
darn different, I figure if it compiles clean under those
two, it should compile clean under a lot of things with
only minimal changes.)

So the status report is:

* I've finished porting 'stdlith', our internal utilities
  library which ALL of our code uses.  Works clean under
  Linux and SunOS.
* I've finished porting all the memory management stuff.
  Works clean under Linux, only partly tested under SunOS.
* I've finished porting something to use .so files instead
  of DLLs, though it still seems to be a bit wonked, so I
  need to work on it a bit more.  Works clean under both.
* I've rewritten the GameSpyMgr (since GameSpyMgr was
  ENTIRELY built around the MFC CSocket class; I didn't
  particularly feel like rewriting it from scratch, so I
  just wrote a new library).  It compiles clean under Linux
  and SunOS, but is untested under both.  Additional, Goble
  just changed some stuff in the Windows GameSpyMgr, so I
  need to bring the UNIX one in line with it.
* I'm currently concentrating on tcpdriver.cpp, the core of
  the TCP networking code, and which is HEAVILY tied to
  Winsock at the moment (unfortunately).  What I'm basically
  doing is #ifdef'ing everything that's a standard function
  just named differently for Winsock, and making helper
  functions for things that are unique to Winsock.  The one
  that's really killing me is #ifdef'ing all the error
  code names, though.  Gyaaaaah.  It's not a difficult task,
  just a time-consuming one.

Whew!  Additionally, once I have it done and compiling
clean on Linux and SunOS, I think I'm going to try compiling
binaries on SunOS 4 and FreeBSD.  Keep your fingers crossed!
If I write this port clean enough, I should be able to
compile binaries for a LOT of things.

So, if I take a little longer to reply to mod community 
e-mails than I have in the past, you'll know what it is 
that has my attention elsewhere. :)

--Loki
------------------
12/04/1998
----
I have to congratulate SSpeare on one of the most enjoyable
game mods I've played in a long time.  Man vs. MCA for 
Shogo is incredibly fun... we had a good match going for 
quite a while here at 'lith last night.  Three humans 
dogpiling on one mech.  (The mech, a total newbie to the 
game who was visiting 'lith, still stomped us humans most 
of the time.  Then again, he's a Quake/Quake 2 player, so 
he did know FPS games somewhat.  And we did some damage 
when we worked as a team.)

I'm working on getting a dedicated Squishie server up here 
at 'lith.  I want to also get Jason Hall into a server as a 
mech, and then invite a whole bunch of gamers in as humans, 
to see if they can take Jace out. >:)  Hopefully I'll be 
able to talk him into it... :)

--Loki
------------------
12/01/1998
----
A possible partial fix for some of the 3Com/USR users out
there.  While this WON'T help the ISDN modems - that I know
of, anyway - this does appear to help the high ping problem
on the 56k serial modems.  I've had several reports that
snagging upgrades from the 3Com/USR website causes the
problem to go away:

http://www.3com.com/56k/usr/upgrades.html

Not guaranteed to fix it, but if you've got a 3Com or USR
56k modem and are experiencing the ping problem, it might
be worth a shot.  We're still trying to find a really good
all-around fix, which hopefully will fix not only the serial
and ISDN 3Com problem, but also the problem that has been
reported with 3Com cable modems(!!).

--Loki
------------------
11/30/1998
----
Well, I'm back from Portland - I enjoyed my trip - and I've
just finished digging out from under 900+ e-mail messages.
Yeesh, I was only gone for four days, folks...

Anyway, a couple Shogo/Lithtech things:

* I'm going to see about releasing Softdib.ren a little
  later today.  Softdib.ren is a debugging renderer; we
  usually include it with the Lithtech development kit
  because it's very useful for machines that don't have
  remote debugging capability.  It also runs under NT.
  Softdib.ren is a windowed renderer that doesn't use
  any DirectX code.  It's NOT so hot performance-wise,
  so it isn't included with the games.  (Hey, I said it
  was a DEBUGGING renderer...)
* Some people are reportedly having problems with sound
  in the Shogo 2.0 patch.  If you are experiencing odd
  lockups, snag the SoftSnd.dll replacement I put out when
  the 1.1a patch was released.  I think GamesNet and 
  Planetshogo both still have it in their files sections.

Lastly... does anyone out there have a developer contact 
e-mail for Logitech?  I've been able to get every other
wheel mouse other than the Logitech MouseMan+ to work with
Lithtech (and bind correctly to Shogo).  Unfortunately, 
the Logitech drivers don't seem to handle the wheel 
properly under DirectInput.  I've tried to contact Logitech
about this, but the only contact information I have is a 
fax number for Developer Relations, and I've had absolutely
no luck getting a reply even after several attempts.  So
I'm hoping that either someone who knows someone in the
Developer Relations division of Logitech, or someone who
works in Logitech's developer relations division, will read
this .plan file and get in touch with me (jeremy@lith.com)
sometime soon. :)

--Loki
------------------
11/25/1998 - Part 2
----
A couple things about the tools release:

* I've had reports of problems with the Photoshop plugin.
  Please, don't report any more yet.  I'm going to look
  at the Photoshop plugin to see what might cause this
  once I get back from my Thanksgiving holiday.
* There is a known UI quirk in DEdit where if you do
  'Create New Project', you will always get a message
  box saying that it can't load OBJECT.DLL.  Ignore this.
  Close the project, and copy OBJECT.LTO from wherever you
  unpacked the Shogo resources to into your new directory.
  However, you might find it easier initially to build
  within the Shogo project itself.  (Load the RIOT.DEP
  file that is under wherever you unpacked Shogo to.)
* VERY IMPORTANT!!  (And this IS in the README, but
  people have ignored it.)  You need to unpack not only
  SHOGO.REZ, but ALSO SHOGOP.REZ and SHOGOP2.REZ - either
  unpack them into the same directory as Shogo itself
  (better for editing), or unpack them into two directories
  named SHOGOP and SHOGOP2 under your Shogo root.  Shogo
  will run either way, but unpacking all into one directory
  makes it easier to edit.  Once all are unpacked, you can
  delete them to save space; Shogo will run out of the
  derez'd directory.

I'm going to be away from a computer for most (if not all)
of Thanksgiving Day, and I will be out of town visiting
some friends in Portland most of the rest of the weekend.
As a result, I will NOT be around to answer e-mails, though
I will try to at least check in on my lithtech.com address
to monitor the mailing lists.  But don't expect my more
usual speed of response. :)

Hope that helps, and happy editing!  And happy Turkey-day,
too.

--Loki
------------------
11/25/1998
----
Ok, I can finally detail what exactly will be in the source
and tools that will be released a little later today. :)

Tools:
* DEdit, the world editor and general editing environment.
* ModelEdit, the model tweaking tool.
* LithRez, the program for rezing and derezing files.
* A document describing all the Shogo objects and what they 
  do and how to use them.
* A sort of general Lithtech .HLP file.
* A 3DS -> ABC command-line convertor, which takes a 
  sequence of 3DS files and makes a mesh-deformed ABC 
  animation.
* A 3DSMAX plugin allowing you to export from 3DSMAX to ABC.
* A 3DSMAX plugin allowing you to use Lithtech .DTX texture
  files directly in 3DSMAX.
* A Photoshop plugin allowing you to load and save Lithtech
  .DTX texture files.

Source:
* The client-side source code.
* The server-side source code.
* All necessary headers.
* The source to the standalone server(!!)
* A compiled binary of our Gamespy communication library,
  needed for the standalone server.

Remember, Monolith is not 'officially' supporting this, so
please don't spam the developers with a lot of 'how do I'
e-mails.  We DO have the mod author mailing list, which
Monolith people (mainly me) are on.  Subscribing to the
mod list is quite easy, and it will let you have a faster
response time as a fellow mod author might know the 
answer to your question and reply faster than a Monolith
person, buried under work, may be able to. :)

To subscribe, simply send a message to listar@lists.lith.com
with the subject 'subscribe shogo-mod' (without the quotes)
and it will do it for you.  Or if you're reading this in
HTML from plans.lith.com, just click on the link below and hit 'send' on the mail message it generates. :)

HTML: Subscribe me to the Shogo mod list!

Enjoy!

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/








































