*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Thu Dec 17 16:16:08 1998


12/17/1998
----
Ok, I've been buried under Shogo mod community stuff, as 
well as other work, but I thought I'd do a .plan update to 
try to fill people in on various things.

First off, the Linux port is coming along, but I haven't 
had as much time to work on it as I'd like of late.  
*sigh*  Still, it's not a matter of issues in porting, it's 
just a matter of finding the time to work on it more, so it 
is going relatively smoothly.

Secondly, people have been asking about enhanced joystick 
support.  We -are- committed to getting this in, but the 
2.1 patch had to be done first to fix the 3Com/USR modem 
problem.  More on that below.  The 2.2 patch updates will 
focus on adding support for the Panther XL, SpaceOrb, and a 
few other things.  It will also incorporate support for EAX 
and true 3D sound.  And fix any bugs that people report.

Thirdly, I've started hearing reports of people who are 
lagging on the 2.1 patch as well, in one case even on the 
3Com/USR modems the fix was targeted at, but I haven't 
determined any common ground, yet.  If you have a problem 
with the 2.1 patch, PLEASE report it DIRECTLY to me, with a 
subject line of 'Shogo 2.1 Lag Problem'.  

Please, only do this if you're experiencing really bad lag 
on the 2.1 patch.  The forums are NOT the best place to do 
it because they fill up and we may miss posts (plus, the 
developers are sometimes too focused on code to read the 
forums, though we're trying to get back in the habit).

Messages should include a detailed description of the 
problem, your system configuration, the version of Shogo 
you're running, any mods you may be running, what 
configuration Shogo is using (are you using REZ files, or 
have you unpacked into directories? etc.) and any steps 
someone can take to reproduce the problem.  (If we can 
replicate the problem, we stand a much better chance of 
fixing it).

Also, if you HAD a problem and found a fix for it, report 
THAT, too.  You might think it was something obvious, but 
what you find obvious, some other user may not... and if no 
one has reported it, we may not even know that someone had 
a problem and found a fix at all! :)

Hopefully, this will allow us to get help and fixes to 
people much more easily.  

Lastly, I've heard a few reports of people having crashes 
under the 2.1 patch, but they've all been for the same 
reason.  I'd like to reiterate that Lithtech must use *all* 
REZ files, or *all* directories.  This means if you had 
unpacked the earlier REZ files to do editing, and 
downloaded the 2.1 patch, you must unpack SHOGOP3.REZ as 
well... this should help!

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/