*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Mon Apr 05 13:03:58 1999

 
04/05/1999
----
Ok, I'll admit it.  I've been bad... I haven't updated
my .plan file since about the last ice age.  (Well,
actually, since January, but the last ice age sounds
more dramatic.)

So, some updates.  I've done a lot more work on the Linux
port, and hopefully I'll have more good news soon.  I've
tried to keep the code relatively clean, but I haven't
tried compiling it under FreeBSD or SunOS lately, so I
can't swear I still compile perfectly under them.  I'm
still going to try to keep the UNIX port fairly clean
so it should compile on more than just Linux.  One
unfortunate thing; I'm not sure that I'll be able to get
access to a DEC Alpha box to produce AXP binaries.  I will
do my darndest, but offering me a DEC Alpha box to access
will probably not work well since I suspect our admin types
might kinda freak at having the source code to Lithtech
uploaded somewhere outside the company to be recompiled. :)

Let's see, any other interesting things... well, I blew
any chance at having an April Fool's .plan update - ah,
well.  Probably a good thing; people tend to take April
Fool's information way too seriously at times.

In other interesting news, it's been one year now since
Lithtech (then DirectEngine) was first released for outside
developers to play with, and boy has it come a long way.
Still, I kind of miss some of the early days of the old
DE Pioneers group... anyway, Mike's been working away on
Lithtech 2 stuff, and some of the latest stuff is REALLY
impressive, especially the new model animation stuff.

Lastly, I'm going to be out of the office from April 8th
to April 17th.  For the first time in my two years here at
Monolith, I'm actually going to take a significant vacation.
My father and I are going to head down to the Yucatan 
Peninsula in Mexico, and go visit Mayan ruins.  (Yes, one
of my deep, dark secrets - I used to want to major in
archaeology.)

However, this means I will be totally unreachable, for
both mod community folks -and- Lithtech licensees.  This
is somewhat unfortunate, since it appears that the Blood 2
source and tools will probably be released while I'm gone.
However, I will be back and on the job after the 17th, so
just be patient. :)  Licensees, in the meantime, should
contact support@lithtech.com (whom they should be mailing
anyway, instead of me directly), and Matt Saettler and
Bryan Bouwman will field questions while I'm gone.  Anything
non-vital can probably be saved up, anything vital, they
should be able to field.

Anyway, there.  I've updated my .plan file. :)

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/