*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Mon May 03 09:50:50 1999

 
04/30/1999
----
Ok, it's come to my attention that some people are feeling
that there's no support for mod authors.

* Please, understand that in addition to supporting
  mod authors, I support the engine licensees -and-
  prospective licensees.  This eats a fair amount of
  time.  I'm also finishing off the Linux server port.

* Due to the time constraints of the above tasks, I do
  not have the time to really track any of the forums.
  Trying to ask about mod stuff on the FORUMS is not
  likely to get you a quick reply, if it gets a reply
  at all.  The mailing lists, or e-mailing me, is far
  far more likely to get a reply.  I have said this before.

* I've heard a lot of feedback that some of the external
  tools are 'unusable' and that we don't care about the
  mod authors at all.  If this was the case, we would not
  have taken our new LT1.5 MAX exporter, written in-house,
  and made an LT1.0 version for the mod authors.  

If people just complain off where I can't see them, I can't
DO anything about it.

Folks, I'm here to try to help you and work with you, but if you don't ask for that help, don't complain when it doesn't materialize on its own!  And do remember that I am one human being, handling a LOT of Lithtech support stuff.  

I've asked before, if people think the mod author support
is lacking, tell me what's wrong and how you think it could
reasonably be fixed.  No one gave me any feedback, so I
feel somewhat frustrated to be told that people are griping
that there's no support...

I think that's the first time I've ever ranted in a .plan
file... at least it was mild.

--Loki
------------------
04/18/1999
----
Back from Mexico.  Enjoyed the trip.  (Anyone who has
a chance, see the ruins at Uxmal.  They are unbelievable.)
Enjoyed 104 degree heat and 3 hour drives between sites in
a car with no air conditioning somewhat less.  Seattle
natives don't do well in heat. ;)

Anyway, I'll write up a big trip journal and post it to
my webpage sometime later, but in the meantime, I have a
LOT of work to dig out from under.  Bear with me for the
next few days as I try to catch up.  If you haven't heard
from me by next week and you have a request or something
in, ping me again, it might have gotten lost in transit. :)

Good to be back, see you all around after I dig out from
under the Scary Pile Of E-Mail.

--Loki
------------------				
04/05/1999
----
Ok, I'll admit it.  I've been bad... I haven't updated
my .plan file since about the last ice age.  (Well,
actually, since January, but the last ice age sounds
more dramatic.)

So, some updates.  I've done a lot more work on the Linux
port, and hopefully I'll have more good news soon.  I've
tried to keep the code relatively clean, but I haven't
tried compiling it under FreeBSD or SunOS lately, so I
can't swear I still compile perfectly under them.  I'm
still going to try to keep the UNIX port fairly clean
so it should compile on more than just Linux.  One
unfortunate thing; I'm not sure that I'll be able to get
access to a DEC Alpha box to produce AXP binaries.  I will
do my darndest, but offering me a DEC Alpha box to access
will probably not work well since I suspect our admin types
might kinda freak at having the source code to Lithtech
uploaded somewhere outside the company to be recompiled. :)

Let's see, any other interesting things... well, I blew
any chance at having an April Fool's .plan update - ah,
well.  Probably a good thing; people tend to take April
Fool's information way too seriously at times.

In other interesting news, it's been one year now since
Lithtech (then DirectEngine) was first released for outside
developers to play with, and boy has it come a long way.
Still, I kind of miss some of the early days of the old
DE Pioneers group... anyway, Mike's been working away on
Lithtech 2 stuff, and some of the latest stuff is REALLY
impressive, especially the new model animation stuff.

Lastly, I'm going to be out of the office from April 8th
to April 17th.  For the first time in my two years here at
Monolith, I'm actually going to take a significant vacation.
My father and I are going to head down to the Yucatan 
Peninsula in Mexico, and go visit Mayan ruins.  (Yes, one
of my deep, dark secrets - I used to want to major in
archaeology.)

However, this means I will be totally unreachable, for
both mod community folks -and- Lithtech licensees.  This
is somewhat unfortunate, since it appears that the Blood 2
source and tools will probably be released while I'm gone.
However, I will be back and on the job after the 17th, so
just be patient. :)  Licensees, in the meantime, should
contact support@lithtech.com (whom they should be mailing
anyway, instead of me directly), and Matt Saettler and
Bryan Bouwman will field questions while I'm gone.  Anything
non-vital can probably be saved up, anything vital, they
should be able to field.

Anyway, there.  I've updated my .plan file. :)

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/