*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Mon May 17 14:37:13 1999

 
05/17/1999
----
Whee!  Post-E3. :)

I actually didn't go to E3; I was the Lithtech team member
who stayed behind to man the fort, as it were.  But from
what I understand from my co-workers who did go, it went
great this year.  Apparently people really liked the tech
demo of Lithtech 2.  (Heh... and they thought those 
screenshots Jason put up were doctored..)

Hopefully, we should have Internet versions of the trailers
for games that were shown at E3 ready in a while...don't
know about a Lithtech 2 technology demo trailer, but I
think it'd be fun to put that out.

External users of Lithtech have been doing some impressive
stuff.  The folks at 3rdLaw seem to be doing a great job
with LT with the KISS game... and I had the enjoyment of
playing with a very early build of 'VOLT' (Virtual OnLine
Tournaments), which Tasman Studios is making.

VOLT really impressed me, I must say (I haven't had a chance
to play the 3rdLaw KISS game, so I can't judge it firsthand
and can't really compare).  Though it's very early on yet,
it has a definite solid base there, and already seems to
be developing a bit like a cross between Tribes and Team
Fortress... an interesting (and enjoyable) multiplayer
combination.  I had some fun playing with the 0.53 build
against some of our QA folks here and some of the Tasman
folks, and would happily be joining into a game to test 
their new 0.54 build tonight if I weren't going to have to
be at my parents' house (family obligations; I turn 22
today, so I'm obligated to go and eat dinner with them).
Sorry, Moriarty.  I'm sure Sticks'll frag you a few times,
though. ;)

I tossed up a brief page with some VOLT screenshots from
my own dinking around with 0.53 (with Tasman's permission):
http://users.lith.com/~jeremy/volt/

Anyway, it sounds like there are a lot of cool games that
were demo'd at E3... I look forward to seeing many of them
in future months.  Need some new stuff to play. :)

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:
http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/