Account Name:  georgeb
Email address: georgeb@finger.3drealms.com
----------
May 24th, 2000 - 11:15pm

Warning you all now.  STAY AWAY from Mission Impossible 2.  

It's really that bad.  First hour is a long drawn out 
yawn-fest with virtually nothing interesting.  By the time 
the action comes in the 2nd half you really don't care anymore.

The first movie is by FAR better than this one.  By far.

John Woo's other US films like Broken Arrow and Face Off 
utterly shame and destroy MI2.

If you've seen the previews then you've seen the movie.  It
doesn't get any better, and unfortunately, it gets a lot
worse.

May 19th, 2000 - 4:00pm

Brandon Reinhart will be joining us next week as a programmer on 
Duke Nukem Forever.

Previously Brandon worked at Epic for two years and on such projects
as Unreal Tournament.  We're very pleased to welcome him as a new 
member to the DNF team and his Unreal experience will allow him to 
be immediately productive here.

We will not be doing further interviews or plan updates on this, as
there really is nothing more to say at this time.  

Thanks for understanding.


April 27th, 2000 - 11:10pm

http://www.oldmanmurray.com/features/crates/crates1.shtml

Oh my God!  I'm still laughing from reading the above article over at 
Old Man Murray's.  If you're a game player tired of crates in games, 
hop on over.  You WILL be entertained.



April 20th, 2000 - 3:35pm

The response to our E3 decision was very positive.  It seems most gamers
want the following:

* More surprise in games, and less telling of all the features beforehand
* Don't announce a game until it's well underway and near release, so as
to avoid hype (We will be doing this next time around gang).

I got emails from developers, publishers, web site guys and of course,fans.
And the following message sums up the general feeling I saw in most people.

"I have been reading the recent activity on the Voodoo Extreme Comment
Boards.  I just want you to know that there are hardcore gamers such as
myself who support your decision to keep a lid on DNF 110%.  Honestly, I
hope I don't see *anything* on Duke until it comes out.  It goes back to
what you've been saying for a while:  the surprise factor.  The game
will be much cooler if gamers don't know every weapon, item, locale, and
monster.  Please keep it this way as long as possible.

I don't think I've been surprised by a game since the original DOOM.
Back then, none of us knew anything about it, we just fired up the game
and the experience was heavily peppered with exclamations of "Cool!" and
"Whoa!"  The first time we got the chainsaw, the first time we saw the
CyberDemon, etc.  I sincerely hope DNF can bring back this "virgin"
experience that the internet and print gaming media have taken away."

I think we can all recall the old Doom days, or Duke 3D, where a game
came virtually out of nowhere and blew you away.  You didn't have a list
of all the locations, items, weapons and monsters.  You just loaded it and
went "Wow".  We are returning to those days long past.

Thanks to those of you that understand.


April 17th, 2000 - 3:55pm

3D Realms and E3.

Before rumors start, we want to clarify our E3 plans.  We will not be
showing Duke Nukem Forever (DNF) at E3, not as a video, nor in back room
demos.

This is the same policy we had last year.  We do not believe including DNF
in the E3 dog and pony show will benefit our goal with the game, which quite
simply is to surprise the player with unexpected content and gameplay.  E3
can be a great spoiler of game content and we believe this to be the
case for DNF if we show it there.

Pro's of doing an E3 video:

* Mainly an ego boost for the team.  You get to show off.  But this showing
off is best saved for the game's release.

* Fans see what you are up to and much press and buzz can be generated.


Con's of doing an E3 video:

* You can greatly spoil the game for fans.  We do not want to show you
specific details of the game because we'd rather you experience them when
you play for the first time.

* You tip off competitors months before your game ships and devalue your
hard work which can easily be replicated once seen.

* You depreciate your game content.  Once it is seen, it becomes "expected
and known" and people naturally want more upon release.

* You have to show too much.  We don't want to show everything and spoil the
game and we certainly don't want to waste time doing some "teaser" video.


By not doing the video we get:

* Backlash from disappointed fans or people crying Vaporware.  This is fine,
because it all goes away when the game ships.  We have thick skins, see the
game daily and are confident with it's progress and position in the gaming
food chain.

* We protect the players experience.  When they play the game it will be
fresh and new and they will say "wow" every 10 seconds.  They will thank us
for not spoiling the game for them.

So after some internal debate and re-affirming our position, we will not
show DNF at E3 in any form.

For what it's worth...we turned down PC Gamer and PCXL requested exclusive 
screenshots of DNF for small roundup previews in May/June issues.  We like 
these guys a lot, but we did this for the same reason as above.  If those 
same magazines (or anyone in the world) called and asked us for 3 minutes 
of video footage of DNF for a May/June coverdisk, we'd turn them down flat.  
So why then, would we do it for E3?  For the press, coverage and hype?  No 
thanks, we have enough of that.

We will never over-expose the game before its release.  You won't ever see
mass releases or screenshot-of-the-day for DNF.  You won't ever see a full
weapon and character listing in a preview, spoiling the many surprises.

We hope the die hard fans out there understand that we're just trying to
protect the game's experience, and we hope that you support us in this
decision.  See you on the message boards.

The 3DR crew will be there though, to relax and enjoy the show and have a
little time off from an utterly grinding schedule.

/em puts on his flame resistant suit.
