Account Name:  georgeb
Email address: georgeb@finger.3drealms.com
----------
7/24/2001 - 11:30 pm

A Max Payne status update.

The game should start to show up in stores anytime Wed-Fri depending where you are and how early stores run with it.

[3DR pre-orders]

We have thousands of boxes built and lining the 3DR hallways and conference room now that we put together Monday.

We really, really had things all planned out to ship on Monday, but it will be Wed afternoon now.  Here's what happened.

We had it all lined up to get our units Monday AM so we could ship most of them that night.  Apparantly someone at the production facility (that built the Max Payne boxes) in Canada screwed up on the customs form.  FedEx moved the shipment to Memphis, TN and held them there.  They were lost in the system for half a day as people tracked them down.

They didn't get released until today and then we come to find out that FedEx won't deliver them to us as arranged.  The shipment was too big (but they had no problem taking them from Canada to Memphis - go figure).  

So we scrambled and hired a trucking company to drive to Memphis, load the Max boxes, and drive them back to Dallas so we can ship them.

They will arrive in approx 4-5 hours (3:30 CST).  At that point several people here are going to work through the night to fill all the pre orders and get them into the mail by Wednesday afternoon.

We're really sorry for the delay.  If things had gone as we planned them and people out of our control not makde stupid mistakes, you would be getting the game Wednesday.

It should be Friday now.

UPDATE:

One more note.

Our web server is destroyed.  We've been watching it die over the last month as Max neared and have been trying to get it updated asap.  For now, we have to shut off the forums in order to keep the site up.  A new box is being put together, but best estimate is that it can't be live until mid-next week.  The new server should solve all message board issues and site bog in general.  Thanks for the patience guys and we know this is a crappy time to have the forums down.
