*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: whaskins
Plan modified: Thu Aug 27 12:28:28 1998




C:\WINNT\Profiles\dcash\Desktop\whaskins.htm





 





 

 
 



August 27th


  Details for the ION Storm ECTS Online Press Party, to be held next
    Saturday, September 5, have been confirmed.  The big bash will be held at Playing
    Fields Cyber Cafe, 139-143 Whitfield St, London W1.  It will begin at 8 PM, with
    plenty of snacks and refreshing adult beverages to go around.   Plans are being made
    to bring John Romero to the event via the Internet, for a little trans-Atlantic
    deathmatching.  Other ION Stormers will be there live and in person, ready for
    interviews and some drunken fellowship.Don't forget, the shindig is by invitation only,
    so if you haven't already contacted me for an invite, email me by tomorrow afternoon so
    that we can be sure to get all the information to you in time (whaskins@ionstorm.com). 
    Members of the gaming press, as well as community webmasters, are welcome to attend.
In the meantime, check out Playing Field's Website at http://www.theplayingfields.co.uk
   


August 4th


  London Calling....ION Storm will be hosting a party in
    London next month (during ECTS) for gaming webmasters and online journalists. This will be
    a chance for us to eat, drink, and be merry with the guys that keep the gaming community
    informed and entertained. If you run a gaming-related site or write and/or edit for an
    online gaming mag, and you plan to attend ECTS next month, email me and let me know.
      We'd love to add you to our invite list! whaskins@ionstorm.com 
    
   


July 15th


    More than a few people have asked me what I think about pages
    like the Gaming Enquirer and the Texas Martini page.  Truth is, I think they are a
    necessary evil in an industry like this.  Naturally, it stings a bit to see in print
    the half-truths, innuendo, and outright lies about ION Storm that fill these pages, but
    the fact of the matter is this...computer games are developed in a fish-bowl.  
    There's not another segment of the entertainment industry that I can think of that is so
    open about works-in-progress.  Can you imagine an E3-type show that featured demos of
    movies that are still being made or albums that are still being recorded?   Of course
    not.       But game developers are gamers at heart.  And
    as such, they understand that game fans have an insatiable hunger for information about
    upcoming titles.  The sheer number of gaming mags and Web sites will attest to
    that.  Computer gaming has spawned a vast Web community that examines the industry
    under a microscope.  It is only natural that human nature, with its petty jealousies
    and irrepressible desire for notoriety, would give birth to those who would seek to
    demonize certain companies or individuals, presumably to make themselves look better
    ....(?)  
So, to all those little bitches (pronounced 'beeyatches') out there who hide
    behind your nicknames and your "anonymous, but very reliable" sources,
    I say "Take your best shot."  At the end of the day, we'll still be working
    hard to create entertaining games.    
And you'll still be parasites, living out your 15 minutes of fame.
    
   


July 13th


     The Sports section of the newspaper just got a little more
    interesting to me.  That's right, NFL Spring Training has begun.  The
    anticipation of football season always makes the dog days of summer a little more
    tolerable.  In the back of my mind I know that soon the cool autumn breeze will usher
    in 5 months of bone- smashing fun.     And just in case you were
    wondering, I HATE the Dallas Cowboys with a passion.  Part of the sheer joy living in
    Dallas last season was watching the desperation in the eyes of Cowboys fans.  
     Not that my favorite team--the Oakland Raiders-- had a great
    season or anything last year...but that's the beauty of a new season...the slate is wiped
    clean.  The Raiders will be visiting Dallas in the pre-season as well as in Week 4.
      While Jeff George and Tim Brown are finding their game, Dallas will be
    'rebuilding.'  Christians to the lions, baby....

   


July 1st


     Daikatana.com is rolling along.  Today we have some
    conceptual sketches and an early model that provide an interesting picture of the
    evolution of Daikatana's main character, Hiro Miyamoto.  It's interesting to see how
    he has developed over the months.  Thanks to Bryan Pritchard, Jim Daly, and Dave Cash
    for their help in putting the piece together.     Christian Divine
    and I had the to-the-death-Tekken3-best -2-out-of-3 challenge earlier.  Of course,
    entry was limited to writers only, so as to keep out the riff-raff...Needless to say, I
    scattered his weak ass like a pile of dry leaves and he whimpered back to his writing
    hole. Long live the King!
   Thanks to all the talented web folk out there who have sent emails and
    resumes.  We will be reviewing all of them over the next couple of weeks.  If
    anyone else out there is interested in throwing their hat into the ring to come work in
    ION's Web Department (otherwise known as "Funsville"), send your email to web@ionstorm.com.
   





June 30th


     Today was Noel "Shadow" Stephens' last day at ION
    Storm. I know I speak for the entire web team when I say that he will be greatly missed.
    In other news, Daikatana.com is getting great reviews, and I'd like to thank everyone who
    has emailed kind words about it.      We will be constantly adding
    more news and information to the site, so check back often. Today, we will be adding a
    downloadable song from Daikatana called Plague Village. 
     Will Loconto is doing a great job on the music for all the
    games and I know gamers will be surprised by the cohesive quality and great composition of
    the tunes. That's it for now. Later. 





June 29th


     After much hard work on the part of Noel Stephens, Dave Cash,
    and Bill Nadalini, www.daikatana.com is now online. We'll be posting daily news in
    addition to providing the most comprehensive look at Daikatana on the Web.
             Speaking of Web stuff, ION Storm is on the
    lookout for a top-notch web guy. If you think you have what we're looking for drop me an
    email and tell me about yourself. And don't forget, the July edition of the Eye On Storm
    newsletter will be posted next week.





June 28th


This week marked the retirement of Stormtroopers webmaster Zep, who moves on, no
    doubt, to better things. I'll miss him, as much for his smart-ass sense of humor and
    journalistic sense of adventure as for anything else. So long, Zeppo. 





June 27th


Thanks to Bill (Big Head) Nadalini and Dave Cash for their help in putting together
    the template.