Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Pat Lipo
Email: plipo@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Programmer/Prog. Manager
Project: Heretic II
Nickname: Vertigon
Last Updated: 01/23/1999 16:09:56 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1/23/99 (PM)
    All right, enough is enough!  There has been a lot of talk on
the Heretic II forums about a VERY bad joke made by Shubes on one
of the discussion groups...  I'll tell you straight up.  There 
ABSOLUTELY POSITIVELY WILL NOT be a nude Kiera skin released with
the Heretic II Enhancement Pack!
    Ultimately I am responsible for every single file and change 
that will go into the patch, and trust me that I have no intention 
of doing something as STUPID as this.  Even if for some reason I 
was inclined to do so, there are many other people this is passed 
by as well, including Steve Stringer and Activision QA.
    The root of the joke is the fact that, yes, there was a nude
skin created for Kiera here at Raven.  However, before you get 
your undies in a bunch, there was a similar skin created for 
Corvus as well.  Jeff Butler does these to get the character's 
anatomy in the proper locations before adding clothes to the skin.  
This "nude skin" is then the foundation of every other skin made 
for the model it's made for.  It's a necessary part of working 
with these models, and Jeff has in all done a tremendous job of 
bringing these detailed textures to our polygon characters.  He is
an incredible artist, and I think you'll like the job he has done
on Kiera as much as you enjoyed Corvus.
    Unfortunately this has ignited an argument from some people
out there that figure "why not release it, there aren't enough
women out there to matter."  That's crazy talk!  I've been really
happy with the amount of attention Heretic II has garnered from 
female gamers.  There is absolutely no way that I would do anything
to try to offend such an important and growing segment of the 
game-playing community.  I personally want to do everything I can 
to attract as many women to our games as possible.  I'm hoping that
with the release of a female character, a strong capable one and not
some irritating Barbie-doll with breasts the size of beach balls,
we'll bring even more our way.
    Guys, look at it like this.  There's getting to be as many 
women out there as there are of us.  The more of them that play
Heretic II, the more PEOPLE we have playing Heretic II.  That 
means more servers, more people on those servers, more fun!  Who
can argue with that?
    To get into the community around Heretic II, please visit
http://forums.hereticii.com

Let's be careful out there,
Pat
------------------------------------------------------------------
1/23/99
    So people are calling me crazy.  I've been here non-stop
for the past couple of weeks working on the enhancement pack.  Once
Shubes finished up the Kiera model, it just inspired me to start 
wailing on things.  My wife's going crazy, since she thought that
crunch time like this would be over for a while (she very patiently
endured the six-or-so months of crunch time I had finishing up
Heretic II.)  Mercifully, she knew full well that she was marrying
someone who was married to his games.  (Does that make me a
bigamist? :-)  
    We should have some good stuff ready for you very, very soon.  
The pack should enter full QA at the beginning of next week.  I
JUST added a very new, but Very Cool Thing (tm) to the game.  We
still have to test it, but if the mechanics of it are satisfactory,
I think it'll completely rock!
    That reminds me of something.  If I'm messing with the game a
tad here, how much do you trust us?  For a radical mechanic like
I'm working on, I'm going to add a convar to turn it off, but 
should every "enhancement" be optional in your opinion?  I know,
hard to say without a definitive list (once it get further into
QA we can get a list out to y'all), but let me know what you think...

Take care,
Pat