
*** MumboJumbo's Finger Server

User name: andrew
Plan modified: Tue Sep 11 14:40:16 2001


Still trying to get in touch with my sister in Manhattan. She and a close cousin of mine both get off at the subway stop inside the World Trade Center on their way in to work. I've heard indirectly that they're both alive and well, but I feel the need to hear their voices myself.

Soapbox time. America is a very great and very successful country. I like living here, and I firmly believe that one of the reasons America has risen to such prominence over the last 200 years is a tradition of individual freedom that has allowed every citizen to reach his or her full potential. In circumstances such as these, everyone understandably wants to immediately "do something" about what has happened. Fireman put out fires, policemen stand around looking official as if a barricade could stop a plane that's already crashed, and lawmakers try to make laws. It's those last people that worry me. As happened after the Oklahoma City bombing, in the coming weeks we'll most likely see a new anti-terrorism bill proposed which in some way sacrifices the freedoms we enjoy in the interest of preventing such an attack from happening again. No matter how horrible the attack, this, of all things, must never be the response. If we give up the very things which originally helped to make this country great, we allow those who attacked us to cause a far deeper and more lasting wound to our society than can ever be measured in individual planes, buildings, or even lives.

Believe me, I'm all for hunting every person responsible for this act to the ends of the earth. But on the domestic front, the best thing we can possibly do is not to react with fear, but to maintain the status quo and even strive to better ourselves in a difficult time, because that's exactly what these terrorists hoped to disrupt. 99.99% of us are still here and doing fine, and I'm still writing video games and exercising my right to free speech while drinking can after can of Coca-Cola, and maybe later tonight I'll go to McDonald's and order four Big Macs just to make the point: We won't let you stop us.


