Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
<B>...but I don't like the sound of his liver!</B>

I am back in the office at last, if only for a short while.  The bile duct procedure went well.  They didn't give me as much sedative this time around, so I was able to shake off its effects after only a day.  The downside of this was that I woke up on the table with the endoscope still down my throat.  Nightmarish - in fact, it seemed like a dream at the time, until I mentioned it to the doctor later on and had it confirmed as reality.

As for the actual procedure, they did not have to cut the duct open again.  Still, they did find some problems, so the doctor wound up inserting a plastic stent to hold the duct open.  The stent is a new source of problems.  It's literally poking me in the liver from the underside.  This is quite painful, to say the least.  I had to see the doctor about it last Tuesday, at which point he gave me a stronger painkiller.

I've spent the past week trying to adjust to its effects and trying to rest things so that they'll heal.  While I'm finally getting used to the painkiller, the pain itself hasn't decreased.  I have another appointment on Wednesday to check the progress, but I've already been told that if the pain doesn't decrease, the doctor will need to go in again and replace the current stent with a smaller (less irritating) one.  I'm going to try and talk him into giving me a different pain killer instead, along with another week's time.

Now, for some non-medical stuff.  This past Saturday was Alumni Band Day at the University of Texas.  (I marched in the flag section and played bassoon with Longhorn Band from 1981 to 1983.)  Alumni Band Day is a day where all past members are invited back to perform a show at halftime of a UT game.  This time around, things were a bit more special than usual, since 1999 is the 100th anniversary of the UT Longhorn Band.  In honor of this, the goal was to put over 1000 people on the field for a combined performance with the current Longhorn Band.

Of course, I was unable to march per doctor's orders.  Still, I'd paid my dues and bought tickets for my wife and son to join me in the stands way back before this hospital mess had begun.  Also, this was the weekend of my son's 13th birthday, and I'd promised this to him as a birthday present.  In other words, wild horses couldn't have kept me away.

I managed to get permission from the President of Longhorn Alumni Band (LHAB for short) to join the band in the stands.  I also managed to participate in a small way in the halftime show by joining with a group of older men who were also unable to march.  We stood in front of the south goal post during the show, holding an LHAB banner.  From my vantage point, the show was incredible - well over 1000 people on the field, including fellow 3D Realms employee Charlie Wiederhold (he played baritone), and a sound that you had to hear to believe.  Oh yeah, we won the game as well - UT 18, Rice 13.

On our way home Sunday, we went to one of the High Holy Places of Central Texas Barbecue.  No, not the Salt Lick - this time, we hit the Southside Market and B-B-Q in Elgin, Texas, just 20 or so miles east of Austin.  Elgin was officially named the Sausage Capital of Texas by the State Legislature a few years ago, and with good reason.  The sausage they serve there is second to none for pure hedonistic pleasure, and they've been doing it since 1882.

My son, who is quite the skinny kid and a very picky eater, turns into the exact opposite when Southside sausage is around.  He stuffed himself silly, as did we all.  I brought home three 5 pound packs of frozen sausage and three pints of their table sauce for a future smokefest at my house.

BTW, the guy at the checkout counter swears that they have a web site, although their business cards don't have a web address.  I've been unable to find it, so maybe one of you can help.  I do have their phone number - (512) 285-3407, during normal business hours Monday through Friday.  Call on Monday for best service.  Supposedly, they'll ship anywhere, so do yourself a favor and order some.







-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-