Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
<B>Obligatory Post E3 Finger Update</B>

E3 is over.  I'm home safely, thank "Bob" for that.  Lots of new stuff at E3, but not a whole lot of interesting new stuff from a music/sound point of view.  Creative Labs had the biggest audio booth there (and some rather good stuff that I can't talk about yet), but aside from them, Voyetra and maybe one or two others, I didn't see anything audio related.  E3 is definitely not geared towards music and sound people.  Oh, well - at least I brought home some decent swag for myself, Brenda, and Nathan. ;-)

As far as nocturnal E3 activities go, my personal highlight was Saturday night.  We went to Santa Monica Boulevard, where we met up with a very big wig from Threshold.  He took us to see Battlefield Earth.  Don't get me wrong - I really appreciate him treating us to a movie.  However, if you haven't seen Battlefield Earth yet, don't.  If it comes on cable TV, change channels.  Two phrases describe this movie for me:  unnecessarily noisy and annoyingly loud.  No redeeming value whatsoever.  Avoid it at all costs.

Anyway, I said this night was a personal highlight, and despite Battlefield Earth, it truly was.  We saw a lot of the area that I'd never seen before, including the view of the Pacific from Ocean Boulevard.  We also went out to a place called Sushi Roku after the movie.  Those of you who follow these updates know that I'm a sushi addict.  I finally got to do what I've always wanted to do - go into a really good sushi restaurant, sit down, and (many thanks to George) order <I>omakase</I>.  This is the equivalent of telling the chef, "okay, give me your best shot - you pick the dishes."  My first omakase session was quite memorable, to say the least.  I felt like I was a judge in an episode of <U>Iron Chef</U>.  There were creations that I would never be able to describe adequately.  Incredible stuff, and a bit overwhelming to my still-sort-of-rookie Japanese cuisine palate at times, but all in all a most memorable experience.

Now, the usual medical update, with more on the elevated SGPT/ALT levels.  I had an appointment with the doctor today and asked him to explain what the nurse meant when she said my level (94, above the normal of 7 to 50-something) was "normal for me."  The doctor clarified this a bit.  He said that the level is not really supposed to be up in that range, but that it by itself is not an indication of anything yet.  If any of my other levels were up, or if the SGPT/ALT level was a bit higher than it already is, then he might be able to pin the problem down a bit better.  As it is, the current level doesn't really tell him what's going on.

After he explained this, he went back through my charts and reviewed my other tests.  He then sent me to the lab to have more tests run - this time, in addition to the basic CBC and sed rate, he ordered a full thyroid panel and a full hepatitis (a, b, and c) panel.  I should find out the results of these in a few days.  If these are negative, then he'll move on to some other tests that I'll refrain from discussing until I actually have to go through them - they're no fun to read about, that's for sure. ;-)






-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-