Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
<B>Kernel error in module CORN_DIGEST: reboot immune system? Y/N</B>

As if the continuing saga of the Bile Duct From Hell wasn't bad enough already, something else got added to it today.  I've got a food allergy - several, in fact.  The list includes soy, peanuts, watermelon (surprised me, too), and worst of all, corn.

I've had a long history of regular allergies, dating back as far as I can remember.  They run in the family.  They eventually got bad enough to put me in the hospital once, so I wound up taking shots, medicines, and nasal sprays for about 7 or 8 years to try and alleviate the symptoms.  I went off them a few years ago, since my sinuses were finally starting to clear up and I thought I was finally over the hump.  Not so.  Since the beginning of the year, I've had 4 acute nasal infections that have required antibiotic and steroid treatments.  The most recent case even came with a side order of thrush (a throat infection, probably encouraged along by some of the steroids).  My doctor proclaimed this to be a bit too much.  Our unusually wet winter and spring months this year have sent pollen and mold counts to insane levels, so he figured that I've been affected rather severely by the stuff.  As a result, after he did a CT scan of my sinuses to rule out polyps and the like, I wound up getting sent to an allergist for a fresh round of testing.

The tests showed that the years of desensitization shots had done some good, at least.  I'm still allergic to just about anything in the air, but not as horrendously so as I was down in Austin.  However, the tests also showed that I've got food allergies, to the previously mentioned list of peanuts, soy, watermelon (???), and corn.

My previous tests had shown some reaction to corn, but compared to my reactions to everything else, the corn reaction was minimal.  As a result, I didn't do anything about it.  This time the reaction was worse:  enough so to prompt the allergist to order a second round of testing (i.e., blood tests).  In the meantime, I'm supposed to completely eliminate corn from my diet.

This is not going to be a fun thing to do, nor will it be easy.  Have you ever noticed how many products have some kind of corn product in them?  Do a search on Google for corn allergy and you'll turn up some interesting lists.  They're extensive in the items they cover, since just about everything has either corn starch or some sweetener or leavener derived from corn in it.  It doesn't help matters any that I absolutely love corn in almost all of its forms, from grits (try them in a Texas or Georgia restaurant before you knock them - I cook my own at home, and they kick ass) to soup to corn-on-the-cob.  Don't even bring up Tex-Mex food - almost all of the good stuff would be off limits.  ­Ay, enchiladas, nachos, y tamales!  Sigh.

If he winds up telling me to eliminate soy and peanuts as well, it'll be quicker to name what I <I>can</I> eat instead of what I can't.  Might as well be stuck eating nothing but bread and water if that happens.

For now, I'm going to concentrate on the corn aspect, since the doctor didn't stress the soy and peanut problems as much.  I've also got to do an experiment of sorts for him next week to see whether or not I have problems with dairy foods: I have to avoid all dairy for 5 days, then load up on it on day 6 and see what happens.  I have to report back to him with results at my next appointment two weeks from now.

BTW, yes, I'm still seeing a gastroenterologist as well, for pain maintenance and other problems relating to the gallbladder removal (post-cholecystectomy syndrome is the diagnosis, with irritable bowel syndrome complicating it).  He's bound to get a good laugh when he hears about this at my appointment next week.  Bleuagh.

I've got my fingers crossed in hopes that the blood tests will say the skin tests were lying.  :-)







-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-