Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
<B>Finally, No Tie at the Top</B>

Congratulations to the Cavaliers from Rosemont, IL, for winning the 2001 Drum Corps International (DCI) World Championship this past Saturday (8/11/2001).  They scored a 98.35 out of a possible 100 points to take their second title in a row and their fourth in DCI history.

Last year, the Cavaliers shared 1st place with the Cadets of Bergen County (NJ).  In fact, there have been three 1st place ties in the five World Championship contests held between 1996 and 2000.  DCI took steps to avoid 1st place ties in the future.  Fortunately, they didn't have to test the new system this year, as the Cavaliers won the 2001 title outright.  However, in an ironic twist, last year's other co-champion (the Cadets of Bergen County) had to share this year's 2nd place position, since they tied the Blue Devils from Concord, CA with a score of 97.60.  Even more ironic is the fact that the Blue Devils were part of two of the previous 1st place ties, sharing the 1996 title with the Phantom Regiment from Rockford, IL, and the 1999 title with the Santa Clara Vanguard out of Santa Clara, CA.

Full results of the 2001 DCI World Championships, along with a list of all past DCI World Champions, can be found on the DCI homepage at <a href="http://www.dci.org">http://www.dci.org</a>.

We watched the PBS broadcast of the DCI finals again this year.  I'm always glued to the set for this if I'm not at the thing live (Brenda and I went to the 1985 finals in Madison, WI, the 1988/89 finals in Kansas City, and the 1991 finals in Dallas).  Brenda can take it or leave it in recent years, but she watched it with me this time around.  Brenda, Nathan, and I had seen all of the top 12 and then some at the DCI Southwestern Championships in San Antonio back in July, so we were all interested to see how things had changed (for at least the top 5) since then.  At least, Brenda and I were - Nathan has apparently been spoiled by live shows, and watching drum corps on TV just isn't the same to him.  He was happy just to run in when the Blue Devils started, and to run back to his computer when they finished.

The Dallas station, KERA 13, did not show the live DCI broadcast: instead, they showed it tape delayed the following day, on Sunday.  I resisted the temptation to get on the DCI website and have a peek at the results.  My wife didn't exactly peek: she got curious on Sunday (before the show went on the air) about how much it might cost for the three of us to see the World Championships live in Madison, WI next year, so she went to the DCI website and looked at their ticket pages.  She didn't go to the news or scores pages on the site, but she did see the announcement of who won on the site's front page.  Thankfully, she kept quiet about the winner, sparing at least some of the drama for me. :-)

The PBS broadcast is almost always accompanied by a pledge drive, and this year was no exception.  We have made a tradition out of renewing our PBS/KERA membership in support of the broadcast.  We also ask the person who answers the phone to try and pass along a request for a <i>live</i> broadcast next year.  Before you write and tell me that the phone volunteers don't have much of a say in the matter, be assured that I'm well aware of this.  I also send e-mail to the station via their web site's Viewer Feedback page, requesting the same thing.  I've received non-canned replies from my e-mail, so I know that it is at least being read by someone in KERA's programming department.  They'll continue to hear from me until they show the broadcast live.

A quick note: if you phoned in a pledge to your PBS station during this year's broadcast, or if you intend to when the broadcast airs in your area, then <b><i>PLEASE MAKE SURE YOU FULFILL YOUR PLEDGE!!!</i></b>  I have it on very good authority that, while the 2000 broadcast generated a lot of pledges, it had at the same time the worst fulfillment rate out of all of the pledge season programming.  This is one of the biggest reasons that the Dallas station did not choose to carry the show live.  If drum corps fans give PBS stations reason to feel that we are nothing but a bunch of deadbeats, then we'll always be stuck watching a tape delayed broadcast instead of a live broadcast.  So, if you pledged and asked them to send you a fulfillment form, please take care of it as soon as possible!

Soapbox mode off.  Thanks.

Another round of thanks to everyone who went to my MP3.com page and listened to my Beethoven sonata arrangement for brass ensemble.  I hope you enjoyed it.  In case you missed it, here's the link again:

<a href="http://www.mp3.com/ljfnord">http://www.mp3.com/ljfnord</a>

The song is the second one on the page.  It's an arrangement of the Minuetto movement from Ludwig van Beethoven's Piano Sonata number 18, opus 31 no.3.  I arranged it for a medium-sized brass ensemble, and it got its one and only public performance on April 20, 1989.  This is a recording of that performance.  Enjoy, and once again, thanks for listening.

Finally, a quick update to the medical saga.  Blood tests for allergies showed some additional reactions to foods, but nothing rated higher than a +1 on their 0 to +5 scale.  Shots have begun, and a followup exam is scheduled in a week.  On the gastrointestinal side of the coin, my doctor is going to go back in with an endoscope to check on some things he hasn't checked before.  Another outpatient procedure requiring anaesthesia, and yet another endoscopic camera.  However, unlike my previous ERCP procedures...well, let's just leave it at this:  the camera is going in, but it ain't going down the throat this time.  That's as much as you need to know - more, in fact.  Ouch.  :-)







-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-