Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: scott.youngblood     Plan Last Modified: 03/30/1999 10:49:51 PST

Real Name: Scott Youngblood

Nickname: CornBoy!

Job: Lead Designer

Project: Starsiege Tribes

    March 28, 1999

Ok, there is a beta patch out that has the new mission editor in it.  All of you mission builders out there give it a good pounding and let us know if you find any problems with it.
If you do find a problem please send me mail asap and we will try to get it addressed before we release the 1.4 version.


On the new Mission front:  The original Broadside is BACK!  The 1.3 version has been renamed to BLASTSIDE (Thanks to everyone who submitted a name.)


    March 16, 1999

A big thanks to everyone who stopped by at Extreme Annihilation.  Also a congratulations to the Wu-Tang guys for pulling
out the victory in the Tribes 4-on-4 tournament.  They also managed to spank a drunken dev team to win their very own voodoo 2 
boards.  We will be updating the tribesplayers web site with pictures from the event when we all return from GDC on Monday.




Also, if you are planning on attending GDC feel free to stop by and check out the SUAV.  It's nifty.


    March 11, 1999


Ok, well it seems that the votes have started to dwindle down to a trickle.  Here is what 
I expect to be almost the final standings:

NO  - 306

YES - 147


So, with about a 2-1 margain the old Broadside version will be put back for the next 
patch release.  I will re-release the latest version of broadside as well for those 
people that requested it remain as a different named map.  Ok!  Now time for a contest:

Name the new broadside map game!

Send me your best name for the new map... 

The winner will get their name included with the new map description.  Here is your chance
to be immortalized and get your 15 seconds of fame.


    March 8, 1999


Woo Woo!  We got Beer!  After months of pleading for beer to arrive in 
the mail we've finally got some!  A special Thanks to DR Jeep, Qui9 and the public
beta team.  DR Jeep sent us some $$$ so we could buy some good local brews, 
Qui9 and the public beta team actually sent us a boatload of Rogue ale brews.


THANKS!


The Voting continues: Update as of 2:43pm pst.


Yes votes - 134 in favor of the new map

No votes - 297 against the new map

Keep the votes and comments flowing in.

I'll be out on Thurdsay - Sunday attending Extreme Annihilation in Dallas.  I'll
do a plan update on Monday the 15th with the final vote count.