Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: mitch.shaw     Plan Last Modified: 03/03/1999 14:54:29 PST

Who am I? Mitch Shaw
Handle:  Skeet
Project: Starsiege Tribes/Tribes 2
Email: Mitch.Shaw@dynamix.com

3/3/99

  Phew.  We got the 1.3 patch out the door, which happens
to be the first patch that I actually processed. (Tim's
been doing it till now.)  That whole patch-making dealie
is both simpler and more complicated than I thought --
figure that one out.  I'll be the joker cobbling up the
release notes and readme files for the patches now too,
so you can blame me directly for any and all bits of
absolute gibberish.  Please be gentle, I'm not used to
writing documentation :)

  I'm starting to get pretty excited about the ideas I've
overheard about Tribes 2.  (Or is Meddish right, should it
be Tribes II?  Or maybe just a different title without
numbers at all, like Tribes: Apocalypse?)  Anyone who
likes the original is gonna be pretty jazzed about the
sequel too -- lots of cool stuff.

  I've got lots more on my plate these days -- in addition
to doing the patches and internal builds, I've got a heap
of new stuff to learn, like how to be an IRC admin, how to
remotely upgrade the Combat servers, how to write legible
documentation for tools that I don't entirely understand,
as well as get more involved in the script-writing and
eventually, coding.  It was nice to have a couple of months
where the pace was a little slower though :)  Oh yeah, and
the webpage-based status report that Dave Moore mentioned,
I'll be responsible for compiling that info too.

  We're gearing up for a tools release soon -- mission
editor, ZED (interior builder), and graphics-processing
stuff to get your source art in a form TRIBES can use.
With this new release, you'll be able to create your own
bases and buildings, it'll be much easier to make a new
terrain for a mission, all sorts of fun.  With the amount
of new things I've already seen people do just messing
around with the scripts, it's going to be really impressive
to see what they can do when they have all the mission-
building tools at their disposal...


2/3/99

 I've gotten some great feedback on the crosshair
stuff I did, and I'm working on making up a bunch
of new ones based on a few things I learned from
our resident GUI guy, "Thulsa Doom" Tinman. Since
several people e-mailed to ask questions on the
subject, I'll share some info with you.

* Crosshair bitmaps can actually be any size or
dimensions. They don't have to be symmetrical, and
they will automatically be centered on the screen.
* There is nothing you can do to change the big
black "zoomed in" crosshair except turn it off.
Press K to bring up the GUI options box, and
uncheck	the "Sniper Cross" item. When you zoom in,
your "regular" crosshair will remain on screen at
the normal small size (as opposed to growing to
fill the screen).

 I'm trying to come up with some ideas for some
interesting and useful new crosshair designs.
If you have any ideas, please leave a guestbook
entry on the GeoCities page mentioned below --
I've seen what happened to Scott when he asked
people to send suggestions to his normal e-mail
address :)
 

2/1/99

 For those of you who want a different shaped
or colored crosshair for Tribes, I cobbled up a
small collection of different ones -- circular,
tiny dots, etc. in a variety of fashionable colors.
I'll zip them all up and put them on my old
GeoCities screen shot page for anyone who's
interested -- the URL for that is
http://www.geocities.com/Area51/Dunes/8338

 Don't expect much from this page -- I just threw
together some screen shots a couple of months ago
before the game came out, and added some lame
attempts at funny captions. The link for the zip
file should be near the top of the page, above the
screen shots. Unfortunately, there isn't any way
of keeping track of the number of downloads, so if
you grab it and find it useful (or have suggestions
for new, useful crosshairs), drop me an e-mail if
you would be so kind.

 The file should be up on the GeoCities page by
2:00 PM PST today. I'll throw a README in too, but
just in case you're one of the 95% who don't bother
to read such files -- unzip the zip file (duh) and
browse thru the BMPs. (I recommend ACDSee) If you
find one you like, copy it to your tribesase
directory and rename it to H_Reticle.BMP (if you
don't do this, your crosshair will not change).
Enjoy!

 Oh yeah, and I almost forgot, happy birthday Mom.
:)