Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: mitch.shaw     Plan Last Modified: 08/10/1999 14:02:32 PST

Who am I? Mitch Shaw
Handle:  Skeet
Project: TRIBES/TRIBES 2/TRIBES Extreme
Email: Skeet@dynamix.com

8/10/99

  Wow, business has picked up for me lately.  Getting
a lot more involved with scripting, and also devoting
more time to TRIBES Extreme.  But first things first.

  As Nels said in his update the other day, I've written
a script that provides a new mission type.  It's called
Freeze (for lack of a better name), and I'll go over the
rules in a moment.  I'm still in the process of QA'ing
it, so it might get released later than Rabbit and Hunter.
Please feel free to join my server whenever you see it
up and non-passworded, it'll be named "Skeet's Freeze
Server".  But first, know the rules so you won't be one
of those folks who joins, has no idea what they're doing,
and then drops two minutes later amidst a flurry of
profanity.

  Basic concept: you "freeze" instead of dying.  When
your health hits zero (or basically close enough to not
matter), you get knocked into observer mode around your
(still standing) body. Frozen players have a blue armor
skin and are stuck in the "using PDA" pose. You randomly
throw all the ammo you're carrying and lose your pack
when you get frozen. You remain frozen until one of two
things happen: your entire team gets frozen (bad) or one
of your teammates hits the enemy's switch (good). If a
whole team is frozen, they respawn and the other team
gets one point. If a teammate hits the switch, everyone
on that team gets unfrozen and the player who touched
the switch gets 1 point for everyone who was frozen.
You get full ammo for every weapon you're holding when
you get unfrozen, and also receive a repair kit.
You will take damage for leaving the mission area, just
like in Deathmatch. All the missions I've converted for
Freeze play were originally CTF maps, and the switches
are exactly where the flags used to be (exception:
Desert of Frost, the new version of Desert of Death, has
the switches inside the pyramids but not inside the holes
in the floor.) Unfortunately, the computer I have set up
to be the Freeze server is also my primary work computer,
so Skeet's Freeze Server will be up largely (if not only)
in the evenings.

  Lastly, I'd like to bid farewell to our own Scott
"ConrBoy!" Youngblood. As he said in his own plan update,
he is leaving Dynamix at the end of this week for, to
once again quote Letterman, "another network". Best of
luck to him, and I'm sorry to see him go (as well as being
sorry that I didn't stay around to drain the keg the
other night at the barbecue). Vaya con queso, Scott.