Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: mitch.shaw     Plan Last Modified: 08/13/1999 11:03:45 PST

Who am I? Mitch Shaw
Handle:  Skeet
Project: TRIBES/TRIBES 2/TRIBES Extreme
Email: Skeet@dynamix.com

8/13/99

  Wow, I think the Freeze mission type is almost ready
to be released!  It looks like my server didn't crash
at all last night.... I'm getting all teary, it's like
the first time your baby sleeps the night through.
*sniff*  Thanks for the comments and suggestions people
have given me on how to improve the game.  There are
a few more minor points I want to fix as well as some
gameplay issues I'm still undecided on.  But first,
I guess I need to announce the changes that I've made
to Freeze over the last few days.

- Reduced number of ammo boxes that people spew when
  they get killed to try to prevent big frame hits.
  Did this by doubling the amount of ammo in each box.
  Also, if you have a repair kit when you get frozen,
  you throw that too.
- Placed a * in front of frozen players' names on the
  score screen. (did I mention that last time?)
- Fixed a problem with people starting a new mission
  in frozen state.
- Took out some turrets in a few missions.
- After someone hits the switch, unfrozen players are
  invulnerable for 2 seconds (helps counteract people
  getting hemmed in with turrets).
- Corrected some messages ("Your team has 1 players
  frozen!" Me fail English? That's unpossible!)
- When you get unfrozen, any weapon you had selected
  now gets reselected. Also, you get a repair kit.
- You can now observe other people while you're frozen,
  but be careful... it might take you a while to
  realize if you're suddenly unfrozen.
- Also, you can now tell who you're observing instead
  of always getting a "You have been FROZEN!" label.
- You can't change teams to unfreeze yourself. If
  you change teams, you are automatically frozen.
- Cut down on the incidence of turrets firing at you
  when you're frozen.  Can't completely eliminate
  it though by the looks of it.
- When a player gets frozen, you observe your own
  body for 3 seconds before you can switch to other
  players.
- Added better explanation of mission type on
  objectives screen.

A few of the bugs that I know are still present:

- When an enemy player looks at you while you're
  frozen, most turrets will still fire at you.
- Occasional respawning-as-observer bug at beginning
  of new mission.
- Occasional failure to load next mission, which
  causes the "neverending mission" problem.

Please e-mail me if you experience any bugs not on
this list.

Lastly, I'm a little torn whether or not to implement
a change that a few people have suggested: when a team
is all frozen, both teams respawn instead of just the
frozen one.  This would prevent people from camping
out at respawn spots and freezing people as soon as
they appear, which can obviously get pretty boring
for the frozen people.  Thoughts?