Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: mitch.shaw     Plan Last Modified: 12/22/1999 11:43:05 PST

Who am I? Mitch Shaw
Handle:  Skeet
Project: TRIBES/TRIBES 2/TRIBES Extreme
Email: Skeet@dynamix.com

10/1/99

  Well, since everyone else on the team is updating their
plan files, and I've been getting a little rusty on my
bandwagon-hopping skills lately...

  To paraphrase a great movie (name it!), "We are here
today to lay two things to rest. Harvey Pitnik, and the
rumor that Dave Meddish is funny." But seriously, on the
topic of laying rumors to rest, if you haven't read Meddish's
plan update, here's a recap with some addenda:
 * TRIBES is not dead, nor is it dying anytime soon.
 * We are receiving strong support/encouragement from management.
 * We are not relocating anywhere.
 * The Dynamix brand name is not a thing of the past.
 * Squirrels are our friends. We like squirrels. Squirrels mean
   you no harm. Ignore the happy, fluffy harmless creatures as
   they go about their everyday business of plotting the
   destruction of the human race.... *OW!* I mean, gathering
   nuts and getting run over by cars.
 * Dave Meddish is as close to shacking up with Jeri Ryan as
   I am to being elected president.
 * Scripting is not easy.
 * Oregon weather is just as psychotic as Florida weather.
 * Canadians are not mere puppets of the evil squirrels *OW!*
   (You will disregard that. Squirrels are not evil.)


  It looks like we're done with the first pass of the TRIBES
Extreme training missions. Just fine-tuning and plugging in of
new AI features remain.  Now I'm helping Jesse with the
campaign scripting, which explains the terrible headaches I've
been getting lately.

  Doh, almost forgot! I think I have the major bugs worked
out of Freeze now, and I usually put a server up to run
overnight and on weekends. If you're interested, please join
in when you see the server and e-mail me your comments.

  What am I doing in my spare time, you ask? (Sure you do.)
My time is pretty evenly divided between plotting the doom of
Scott "Captain America" Rudi as a result of my insane jealousy
of his stardom, and looking forward to GK3. Yes, my private
shame is made public; my first love in computer gaming was the
adventure game. Sierra finally publishing another real,
honest-to-goodness adventure game is enough to get my blood
pumping... enough to break out all my old copies of stuff
like the Space Quest games and even Freddy Pharkas, Frontier
Pharmacist.

  Be that as it may, and I doubt that it was, that's enough
"news" (to use a term loosely) for now. Keep the faith and
keep an eye on us as well.