Ion Storm

User Name.........jim
Full Name.........Jim Daly
Description.......Artist
Last NT Logon.....Monday, November 17, 1997 at 20:46

My new Plan!

Let's Talk about games.....
In the several months I have spent working in the electronic gaming industry( coming from the glut of super-heroes they call the comic industry) I have played more games than ever before.  In light of this ( and much like a good comic book, movie, or any piece of sequential art)  STORY IS KEY.  The games in development here at Ion Storm are that much richer for it.  

Now, in my last few plans I have spoken of the incredible amount of talent both in the programming and level design dept., as well as the art . I have seen movies with great actors, rad special effects, and huge budgets---a lot of these with a shallow, lack-luster story.  Sure just the fact that you, as a gamer, can interact with this piece of software is staggering.  When you get past that, just like a movies' incredible effects you start to look for what you as an entertainment consumer can identify with.  STORY. Plain and simple. Characters with a struggle; a war they want to win, maybe a boy or girl they love, etc.  More than just an icon, usually juvenile at best( you know the types), but someone the storyteller introduces as somebody you could partly be, or partly know, perhaps even understand the motivation of. 

There a hundred's of games, comics, and movies being released this year alone.  How many have characters  you and I can identify with?  Maybe one-third? My brother argued once in dis-taste of his own point that games can live without a decent story, that so long as the game to player interaction is fun it could live for a while.  Obviously, I disagree.

Think of the Godfather as a game, would you be Michael Corleone-moving up through his father's crime family, taking on many of the struggles of that character?

Or...would you be running around shooting generic cops and rival mafia members?

I am not comparing our developing games to "the Godfather"(though it is a "family" environment up here); I am simply stating the need for  STORY in this industry. Thanks to game designers like John Romero, Tom Hall, Todd Porter, and Warren Spector - STORY IS KEY, and of course  "DESIGN IS LAW"

I am aware of other companies in this industry to whom the STORY is undeniably important, these are the games I buy, enjoy, and tell my friends about. I hope other fans of this particular entertainment-industry  feel the same.

Like the saying " an opinion is like an asshole...." You know the rest; only a  STORY is something that not every game has and, THAT stinks.
					James Daly  

I 



(File last updated on Mon 17 Nov 1997 at 20:52)