
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: jim
Plan modified: Mon Nov 30 10:42:30 1998

new plan....


ah, Monday.








NEW PLAN BIATCH!!!

SIFL AND OLLY RULE!!  Crescent Fresh!!!

that is all.







Plan this!!!

Well, judging by the amount of responses I recieved, it seems there a lot of people out there who like Jack Kirby's stuff as much as I do.

I offer up then another brilliant artist who's work is usually loved or hated(rarely any in-between)in comics' fandom at least.

MIKE MIGNOLA.

I have been awestruck by Mignola's art since I first saw it. From his earlier D.C. work on Cosmic Odyssey to his more recent work on Batman: Gotham By Gaslight, Dracula (Topps), Doctor Doom/Doctor Strange, Phantom Stranger, Fafhared and The Grey Mouser,Aliens Salvation(Dark Horse), Legends of the Dark Knight #54 and his brilliant creator-owned series: HELL BOY(Dark Horse). 

Especially "Hell Boy: Wake the Devil". It's creepy.

Specifically, Mike Mignola's art is hands-down the best in comics right now. No one uses dramatic lighting like he does. The detail he illustrates serves more to texture the creepy-crawly-creatures and moody sets than to render for the sake of rendering. Don't get me wrong rendering can be awesome, when done right--(Will Eisner,Berni Wrightson, Frank Miller, Kelly Jones, Timothy Bradstreet,etc.)--Unfortunately, most comic-book artists today seem to illustrate books hoping computer-coloring will save them the trouble of setting a mood in the black and white line art. More often than not, these artists tend to put so many of the same stylized little hatchings everywhere, that the rocks have the same texture as the people. Even worse, they do it to hide the poorly executed figures, or backgrounds.

Mike Mignola's art appears too simple for some comic-fans(perhaps those fans who can't see past the latest X-Men artist), but if you ask most artists and some fans they'll tell you that's where the brilliance in his art lies. Simplicity. Basic black shapes and great story-telling. You're never distracted by his art when you're reading the Hell Boy books, it's like for once the art and story have become one entity. Most of the X-Books I buy, I tend to breeze through looking at the art first and then I'll read it.  With Mignola's stuff it sucks you in like a great movie would. You don't start thinking about all the work that went into the book until the story has taken you to it's inevitable end. I could say the same about movies like "Saving Private Ryan" or "Brave Heart".

Story-telling. Something a lot of comic-book artists could learn. 

that's my opinon anyways...Peace--JIM

well I only found one site for the interested parties out there to visit, go check it out!

http://www.abraxis.com/alz/Hellboy.html 







NEW PLAN!!!

Jack Kirby is the ArtGod.(especially for comicbooks!)

He was the ultimate conceptual artist. Imagine if "King Kirby" designed video games... The weapons alone would be mind-blowing. (how would one do "Kirby-crackles" in a 3d engine?...hmmm...) 

His far-out character design, and wacky level architecture would, at the very least, artistically dwarf anything out there. His plot would delightfully confuse and enlighten the interactive gaming community. Alas, because he has passed away we may never know... I urge any artist to take five mintues to study some of his illustrations and some of his comic books.(especially those who have no idea who Jack Kirby is/was) You'll be creatively refreshed, possibly inspired. I can't help but be influenced by his amazing designs lately, anyway just thought I'd share...

ARTISTS GO CHECK THESE OUT!!!!

Here's a crazy space-ship!!! It'd make an awesome level!!

http://fantasty.com/kirby/color2.jpg 

I'm not sure what the first guy's weapon does, but I'll bet it kicks your ass.

http://fantasty.com/kirby-l/gods/heimdall.html 

go here and check out this guy's rad get-up!!!

http://fantasty.com/kirby-l/gods/honir.html 

Peace---Jim
Here is the coolest online publication/ collection 
you can get of Jack Kirby stuff: http://fantasty.com/kirby
(you can also get a subscription to the magazine!) 







Aug. 19-98

Holey-Jumpin'-Cheese-Waffles!!!!

I would like to congratulate my friend Paul Richards on his new 3D Realms gig.  Paul is a cool guy and a talented mutha' fucker.

I would also like to report that Daikatana's rendered cinematics are looking incredible.  I just finished doodling another set of storyboards written by Christian, and after seeing what Jerry and the cinematic guys are doing I can't wait to see these new shots animated.

I have also been playing Daikatana a bit.  Wow.  All the weapons are rad.  My favorite is the "ION Blaster"-It's probably the weapon design I liked drawing the most, and that combined with  Ken's awesome fucking skin, a killer 3D model and the weapon effects on it make it my personal favorite so far....who knows, every time I look at the progress of the game I see crazy-new stuff.

For now though:  the "ION Blaster" kicks your ass!!

I would also like to quickly kiss-the-ass of the current Daikatana ART team:

Jerry O' Flaherty-funky boss/ hard-core-bad-ass-art director
Bryan Pritchard-fearless leader/ lightwave master
Ronn Harbin-amazing animator/ massive modeler
Pete Hushvahtov---model-building-big-boy/  the russian destruction!
Ken Scott-sensational skin artist/ texture-titillation man
Andy Chang-luscious level texturer/ Funng!!
Andrew Collins-sexy San Fransisco textures/ cool-whip!
Chuck Crist---groovy Greek level textures/ "the Host with the Most, but don't burn the Toast!"
Mark Morgan-miraculous medieval level textures/ he basically rules.

(Russ, Clay, and Jeff are in Austin now but they rock too!)

I would especially like to thank the God of Art who has deeply inspired us all.... He can kiss my ass, so I don't have to.


