Login: den            			Name: Den Dragon
Directory: /usr/ultima/den          	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Last login Fri Jan 30 17:42 (CST) on ttyp0 from usr24-dialup17.m
No Mail.
No Plan.

Login: dragon         			Name: Rick Brewer
Directory: /home/dragon             	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Last login Tue Nov 11 02:37 (CST) on ttyp3 from sfo-ca16-18.ix.n
New mail received Sun Feb  1 23:25 1998 (CST)
     Unread since Sun Feb  1 20:19 1998 (CST)
Plan:





^Drag0n^'s TalonFile







WebMaster, QuakeWorld Central
        -- Comments? e-mail me.

        (Note: this .plan is in HTML: visit http://www.stomped.com/quake/finger to see
        it all.)February 1st, 1998:
        "Yo quiero Taco Bell"

OMYGOSH! Imagine my surprise when I
        found my future housemate, Jack "morbid"
        Mathews, looked like this:

THE HORROR!!!!
(I
        wonder how he got those little paws on that new Pentium2
        300...)
January
        14th, 1998:

        Quake 2 Skinpack Oddities Revisited...


My
        good friend, texture artist Joe "MoRT" Buck,
        sent me the following email explaining the "grey
        skin phenomena" in photoshop and PSP:
Hey Rick, 
The prob with the skins showing up
        grey in some paint progs is a photoshop specific thing.
        Photoshop reads the palette info in a *.pcx file in
        reverse. One way around this is to open up the *.pcx file
        in something like Paintshop Pro and save it as a *.bmp or
        something and then open it up in photoshop. Just make
        sure when you go to save any changes you make on the skin
        in photoshop, open up the modified version in another
        program and save as *.pcx otherwise photoshop writes the
        new file with the palette in reverse. I know this works
        cause this is what I have to go through everytime I make
        graphics for Quake 2 :/ Anyway, hope that helps. Talk
        to you later. 
Joe
Thanks Joe!
Other people suggested loading the
        Quake2 palette after loading the image in PhotoShop. As i
        use PSP and Fractal, I was unable to verify this.
BTW- if you're looking for a first class
        texture artist, Joe is the man. It amazes me that 3DR,
        Ion or Ritual haven't picked him up yet with all the
        hiring they're doing...
-^D^
January 13th, 1998: Quake 2
        Skinpack Oddities...


The first Official Quake 2 Skinpack is
        out, and you can get it here:
QW2_9802.ZIP 
To install it properly, you must select
        the "-d " option if using DOS Zip, or check the
        box "Use Folder Names" if using WinZIP.
Unzip the file into the directory
        *CONTAINING* the Quake2 DIRECTORY. If /quake2 is in your
        root dirctory of the c: drive, unzip it to c:/ If you
        don't, the file structure will be all messed up.
I've heard reports from some people that
        the skins included in the pack appear Grey in some
        editors, whereas the skins appear fine in Quake 2. I
        believe this to be a problem in the saving algorithm for
        either Paint Shop Pro or Photoshop. I'll do some research
        and post my findings here.
Process and I were discussing adding the
        Skinpacks to the Stomped section of the PC Gamer CD for
        those people that don't want to spend hours downloading
        them all. This may or may not happen, depending on the
        legalities.
Quakeworld Central will be changing
        roles soon. Veering off from being a Quakeworld support
        page, and more into supporting the various skinpacks for
        id's games. The site currently seems bland, lacking the
        flash and coherent theme of the original design. It's
        time to change that.
I see Quakeworld Central going in any of
        the following directions:

- Tutorials on making Player Created
            Skins for QuakeWorld and Quake II

            - The Skinbase files (of course)

            - Becoming a Warehouse of the better Textures created
            for Quake and Quake 2

            - Mirroring Selected Maps for Quake, Quake 2, HeXeN
            II, SiN, and HalfLife

            - Reviews of Quake Related Hardware

            - QW documentation & FAQ Archives

            - Continued qPlug support

Feel free to e-mail me and let me know
        what you think.
- ^D^
January 12th, 1998: 

        HEY, MICROSOFT! Raise the TITANIC!
Bonk. Teardrop. WinNuke. 
Is it just me, or does the Windows line
        of operating systems have more holes in it that the star
        of James Cameron's latest blockbuster? Microsoft has a
        lot on the line here, you think they'd have more
        resources working on fixing it before someone gets the
        bright idea of bonking their servers.
Which brings up an interesting
        point...if they can't address these problems in a timely
        fashion, how can they expect anyone to use WindowsNT as a
        primary gateway or DNS? As it stands now, the only way to
        protect yourself is to have a UNIX machine in between
        you, filtering the garbage out.
I found an abandoned Sun IPX at work
        today...I think I may attempt to adopt it...
- ^D^



Disclaimer: All opinions in this
        planfile reflect my opinion and in no way represent those
        of Stomped.com. Publication of any portion of this .plan
        without the permission of the author is expressly
        forbidden. Quake , Quake II, DooM, and DooM II are all
        (c) id Software, Inc. ^Drag0n^ (c) 1996 me. That's all
        the fine type. I'm done now. Besides, don't you have
        something better to do than read the disclaimer?