Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer

10/13/99

Damn, October already.. Haven't updated for like 2 months it seems.

First the pimpage -- we're going to do our first team IRC chat tomorrow at
noon pacific, 3 eastern.  Kind of a weird time, but they wanted to pick a
time when people from Europe could attend, since we're not planning to do
very many of these.  A pretty good % of the team should be there, so even
if no one shows up, we can always talk to each other, I suppose.

Ok, pimpage over, now for a tech update.  Been playing around with a re-
write of our mesh/character rendering system for Direct3D optimizations. 
Our Glide prototype was working well, but moving it over to other APIs 
uncovered a few areas where it could be better.  The biggest thing I wanted
to do while moving it over was to make the necessary adjustments for hardware
accelerated transform and lighting.

The big hurdle for us was that our soft-skin blending system from Maya 
currently allows for as many as 6 bones affecting a single triangle (2 bones
per vertex * 3 vertices per triangle = 6).  As it turned out, it very rarely
went above 4, but that's still more than the current hardware supports 
on a per-triangle basis.  So unfortunately on the skinned models we had to
drop back a bit and do the mesh->world transformation in software like before,
but use the hardware to do the world->view transform, clip, and lighting.

I was a little worried that we'd lose most of the speedups by doing this,
since obviously if you can put the vertices into a static buffer and never
touch them, that's how you can hit those massive peak triangle rates.  But I
was happy to discover there is still quite a bit of gain to be had even with
this half-way implementation.  In a small model render test rig, our software
renderer pumps out the test model (about 1700 faces, LOD disabled) at about
140fps.  That's with 4 point light sources and all accurate math, no cheating
on lighting or anything.  After implementing the new half-software/half-
hardware path, the framerate shot up to 280fps, so we got a 2X speedup 
by partially using the hardware geometry engine.  Both benchmarks were 
done on the exact same machine/card, just using different rendering methods.
The lighting looked nearly identical to our software lighting, perhaps 
even a bit better.  This is pretty encouraging.  When I learned that the
current hardware wouldn't support our native 6-matrix blending, I was afraid
we wouldn't get any speedup, but obviously this isn't the case.  And
of course lots of our models aren't skinned at all, and those should get
even more speedup (doors, crates, decorations, etc.).  

In other areas, Yves has taken over a lot of the AI work that was on my
plate, and already has some neat stuff running that I always intended to
get around to but never did.  Stuff like the ability to 'mesmerize' enemies
in the game and make them do your bidding, summoning 'pets' to aid your party,
and so on.  Of course a skeleton holding a sword wasn't the sort of pet I 
grew up with, but he's from Belgium, so what can you do.. You can grill him
on that in either English or French at the irc chat.

Oh yeah -- last bit of pimpage -- be sure to check out the newly announced
hard-core technical GDC seminars (hardcore.gdconf.com).  Carmack, Perlin,
Hecker, Wu, what more can you ask for.  And the day after that is the Marin/SF
GDC road show where a couple of Nihilistic folk will be speaking.