Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer

11/5/99

Well, seems like a good time for a periodic development update.

The last few days we've had an engineer from WON.net in the office to help
get the on-line matchmaking process ironed out.  We made a lot of good 
progress on it, and the whole process of getting into the chat rooms and
finding opponents is very clean.  The whole system works a lot like 
battle.net, but has some unique twists.  For instance, you can switch your
character persona while in the chat rooms and other people can view your
character details, etc.  So its a bit like role playing inside the chat
room.  Still have some work to do here, but the basics are up and running,
so now its all refinement and polish.

Yves has been working mostly on AI stuff lately, and its getting to be 
very cool.  Just today he was testing some of the party-based command modes,
and it looks like its going to work out as good or better than we had 
hoped.  Basically you can click a single button and send your party members
out into the level "looking for trouble" as it were, or click another button
and have them form on their leader (ie: you) and form a defensive huddle. 
Its cool when they first enter a fight they'll automatically use some of 
their blood pool (like mana, essentially) to cast some stat-enhancement
effects (ie: buffs).  Still a lot of work left, but they are starting to
feel human.  Very obediant, undead humans...

Also been working on support for various 3D cards under Direct3D.. Our 
biggest challenge on the rendering speed side is still definitely the
transform througput of the high-polygon models and worlds.  We just got
another K7 machine (thanks guys!) and it makes a big impact on the 
framerate, so we're still very dependent on the CPU speed, which is not
a good thing really, but we're working hard on it.  I must have re-written
the basic world rendering pipeline two or three times in the last few
weeks, finding various ways to avoid an extra copy or transform or
conditional statement.  VTune is helping a lot in this regard, thank god
for that program.  I still have to get IPeak wired up for testing, I hear
that's a damn useful rig also.


