Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer

2/12/00

Wow.. Such great weather outside how can I not do a plan update!

Things are cruising right along on the game.  This is really the part of
development that's the most fun, where everything comes together and cool
new stuff gets added almost on a daily basis.

One of the coolest parts of the final phases of a project, for the programmer,
is when you see new features for the first time that exceed your expectations
of what the game is capable of.  That might not make much sense, but what I
mean is, as a programmer I work on the project one small feature at a time.
One day I might be working on path-finding, or the next day working on the
collision systems, and when I work on each part of the game, I usually make a
small test case or boot up one room of someone's level and test the feature in
the exact same place, time after time.  So there are PARTS of this game that I
know like the back of my hand.. The starting room in the Azenka's convent, the
streets of Old Town Prague, or the area outside the east gate of the town, for
instance.  And I know a few of the in-game cutscenes and dialogs because there
are always a few bugs and tweaks to make in that system.  But I rarely get a
chance to really look at the game as whole.  Part of that is just lack of time,
my day is plenty full putting in final touches and fixing bugs, but part of it
is intentional.. I WANT to be shocked and surprised by stuff when I play the 
final game.  Its like shaking your gifts under the tree before Christmas, some-
times its more fun NOT to know what's inside.  This was really driven home the
other day when we got a whole bunch of new screenshots sent over from our
publisher to be used for web sites and stuff.. I went through them one by one
and the majority of them were of areas or characters I had never laid eyes on
before, and the quality and variety of it all really blew me away.  I'm lucky
because I'm one of the few people on the team that can still be surprised by
this stuff anymore -- the artists and level designers deal with the art and
design content every day.  So if I had to pick one part of the project I 
enjoy the most, its that feeling of surprise and amazement you get when you
realize how the final product is becoming much more than the sum of its 
programmed parts.

As for the parts I'm focused on lately, been playing around with the "gibs"
system, kinda morbid stuff, but hey, we're rated "M"!  Ray did some polish on
the lighting halos and fixed the last lightmap-related issue, so now we've 
got some neat levels where lightning illuminates accurately through windows
and stuff with blowing curtains and correctly timed thunder, its pretty 
convincing.  The new batch of screenshots I mentioned should filter out
slowly through the proper channels and shows off some new features like proper
cast shadows from statically place objects onto walls, weather effects, some
of the most elaborate discipline special effects, and so on.  There are
also a couple videos being worked on, but I don't know exact ETAs on those
or where they'll appear first - hang in there.

One last thing before I wrap this up -- There's another Game Programming class
starting up at the San Francisco Berkeley Extension campus in the City.  I
thought this 5-week course last year and it went really well, it was a lot
of fun and I've kept in touch with a lot of the students, several of whom have
landed new jobs in the industry.  This semester the course is on Tuesdays
at 6:30 at the new Market Street location (I haven't actually been there yet
myself, but they tell me its at 425 Market, 8th floor).  The class runs for
5 weeks and can be taken for credit.  Its most appropriate for people with a
good grasp of C or C++ and want to learn the specific structure and tricks used
to write games using Windows / DirectX.  If you already do 3D math in your
sleep and already know what an A* search is, then its probably too basic for
you.  Last time we had about 25 people which is about the limit for these I 
think, but this year I am told its only about 15 so far, so there's still
lots of room.  I'm also going to do another Tutorial session at GDC in March
that is more intermediate-level and it held during one 8-hour day.





