Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer

3/13/2000

Back from GDC.. What a nice little vacation!  Although with the lack of
adequate sleep it hardly felt like a vacation.  For those that have inquired,
I'm sending the powerpoint slides from my lecture over to our webmaster to get
posted on our site when he's got time, but he's a full-time lawyer and only
part-time Nihilist, so be patient, it might take a bit.  I'll be happy to email
them to those in a hurry.

Saw a lot of cool stuff at the show, the X-Box demos were amazing of course,
as demos should be.  Normally it takes the games on a console platform 2-3 years
to catch up with the quality of the pre-hardware demos, but hey, at least it
gives us something to shoot for.  Most of the talks I was looking forward to 
turned out to be good, so overall a good weekend.  Not a ton of new hardware
stuff demo'ed, everyone's just kinda refining stuff, more T&L parts coming up,
and the T&L stuff is getting more flexible for stuff like skinning, which is
nice.  Got to see the Gigapixel stuff running, looks nice, should be a fun 
board to experiment with.  Lots more cards showing off Anti-aliasing and other
image-quality improvements, so gradual tweaks on all fronts, but fewer earth-
shattering leaps seem to be the order of the day.

I sat in on one roundtable where the conversation turned to how to craft a
resume to break into the game industry, and it got me to thinking about all
the resumes I've seen over the last couple years and a few rules of thumb I
could provide.  So here for no particular reason is my top 10 things NOT to
put on your resume:

- Don't put down that you want to be either a programmer or an artist.  Or
any other combination of two vastly different jobs.  Even if you have skills
in both areas, figure out for yourself first what you want to do and pick one.
Putting two doesn't double your chances, it more or less eliminates them.  No
one wants to hire someone for a job that they aren't 100% certain is what they
want to do.

- Don't put specific game ideas or proposals into a resume or cover letter. 
Most developers won't even read them because its too risky legally.  

- DO send a cover letter personalized to the company.  We hire way too few 
people to bother with anything that appears to have been mass-mailed to 200
companies, we want to get the idea that someone spent a decent amount of time
thinking about their reasons to apply for our company specifically.

- Don't mention at the bottom of your cover letter "by the way, did you know
your web site is totally insecure".  It makes people nervous that you even
bothered to check :)

- A resume isn't a platform for politics.  Don't put stuff like "Micro$oft"
or "Winblows" in a resume to try and be clever.  Or don't go off on a huge
Linux rant or something.  A good developer should be willing to work with
the best tools for a given job without zealotry getting in the way.

- Don't list all the different compilers or text editors you worked with.
The language is what's important, not the tools you used, really.

- If you send a demo (and by all means do), make sure it doesn't crash the
machine or require a lot of weird drivers off the web to run it.  And an
un-installer is definite bonus points!

- Don't gripe about former employers in a resume or cover letter, no matter
how bad you think they screwed you.  It just makes people wonder what you
might put in your resume if you ever left them.  Save the war stories for
the interview instead.

- Don't criticize the work of the company or people you are applying to, even
if its true.  It might seem like you'd get points for being honest, but in
this situation its not the wise move.  No one likes an outsider they never
met and don't (yet) respect giving advice or critiques of their work.  Even
if your analysis is 100% correct, it leaves a negative impression.

- Don't talk about money requirements in the resume or cover letter.  It just
makes you seem greedy or focused on the monetary side of things.  Even though
everyone likes to get paid, we all like to think that people's first thought
is the job itself.  The money issues can wait for the interview.

- Don't use a weird or goofy email address for your contact info.  It might
reveal more than you want about yourself.  If you're main email address is 
something like "PornK1ng@hotmail.com", consider making a new alias :)  And
don't use a relative's or friend's email, it just confuses things and with 
the hundreds of free email websites out there, there's not much excuse.

- If you are not able to work in the country you are applying to without a 
visa, don't try to hide that fact by listing a US address.  Likewise, if 
your background includes foreign school or work but you ARE able to work
in the country you are applying to, mention that specifically so there's
no confusion.  Its a sad fact that the ability/inability to work without
a visa is a big factor in hiring, especially at the entry level.  Its not
the companies fault, so don't try to confuse them.


Wow, that was even more than 10 things, I figured I'd run out of ideas at
8 or 9.  Anyway, hope that helps someone out there.  These aren't based on
any particular resume's we've gotten or anything, just a collection of 
little things I've experienced over the years that might help someone out..

Rob