Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer

6/8/2000

Ok, so the game is on the shelves now, and everyone here is shifting from
development mode to support mode.  Its great to go to the mall for lunch
and see your game on the shelves for the first time.  That's sort of the
payoff for the whole process.  And better yet, by the time we finished
lunch the game was no longer on the shelves, so that's nice to see also.

There's one patch already that's just about finished with Activision's QA
process that is just to address the bandwidth used by games hosted on modem
servers.  Everyone should get the patch (small) when its released because
it obviously makes the network protocol more efficient for all users, but
its specifically designed to help people hosting on 28.8k or 56k modems.

Also, we've been trying to monitor any problems on our own web site forums,
but they've been really pushed to the breaking point for the last 48 hours.
So until those forums get out from under the traffic, we'll also be trying
to monitor other Vampire sites to get information out to people.  I'd 
suggest trying (in no particular order!)

vampirevault.ign.com
www.themasquerade.org
www.planetvampire.com
vampire.won.net

We can't guarantee support through these channels, but we'll make every 
attempt to track issues through our own website (when its responding) and
these forums as well.  If there are more forums out there, please let me
know.

As a quick FAQ of issues found and solved so far:

- If you have GeForce Detonator drivers, make sure you leave Fog table
emulation ON (its default).  Otherwise some levels will appear overly-fogged
- If you have a 5-button explorer mouse, get the newer drivers from 
microsoft's website, the old drivers have a problem with button3 & DirectX7
- Some people have reported hangs or a crash with GeForce cards and 
certain motherboards.  We're still investigating this, but for now best
advice is to not overclock, use released driver versions, and check your
motherboard's AGP apeture settings
- If the AI is using too much blood, make sure you have them on NEUTRAL not
AGGRESSIVE mode, or turn on "AI use hotkey disciplines only" to give you 
more control over their use of disciplines
- You can toggle camera auto-slew on in the control options
- You can click and HOLD to both move and attack
- You can hold SPACE to perform actions without moving when possible

Think that covers a lot of the more frequently encountered questions so far.

We are currently working overtime to get the first version of the NOD SDK 
out to people.  We're still polishing up some of the tools and documentation
to make sure its a good release.  These tools will be released by us directly
and not by Activision, as they are not supported tools We're also working to 
resolve the load problems with our forums.  

Thanks to everyone who purchased the game.  Your first stop for problems
should of course be http://www.activision.com/support/271.asp and if that
fails try some of the other fansite forums.