Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer

6/28/2000

Got a few questions in email after the last update, figured I'd post
them here:

- The new patch should not break old save game files, so no need to
  start over in the SP game
- An additional Storyteller feature that was added I forgot to mention:
  the ability to re-position objects after they are placed and also the
  ability to remove all placed objects (or very nearly all, we may have
  missed one or two, there are too damn many).
- The patch size is about 2MB (800k of actual patch data, the rest is
  the self-extractor and patch application itself).  This might grow a
  bit as the localized data is added, however.
- There will be a single patch released for all languages.
- The save-anywhere feature is accessed via the ESC menu just like LOAD.
- The pause feature is accessed via the "pause" key.
- The issue with the 5-button Microsoft mouse is fixed in the patch.

Also, we are starting phone interviews and stuff for open positions here
for our next project.  If you're a programmer, designer, or artist
(and are kick-ass at your job, naturally) send some stuff to 
"jobs@nihilistic.com".  Full-time on-site only, please!  There's just no
subtitute for working on a small, efficient, talented team so why not 
give it a shot, you won't regret it.  We're planning to add just 3-4 
people total to bring the head count here to like 15, and will continue
to focus on only one triple-A title at a time.  If you sent stuff earlier
during crunch mode, feel free to re-send it to that alias if you're still
available.  Thanks.



6/27/2000

Just a quick status update on what we're working on here at the haven - 

The final submission of the patch is going out to Activision today.  This
is the patch that addresses the issues that Ray posted about earlier on the
boards, but just by way of summary:

- Save anywhere, named save slots, warnings on overwriting autosaves
- Pause during combat to issue orders or adjust inventory, disciplines, etc.
  (this looks really cool BTW - because you still have full camera control 
   while the particles and effects are all paused, very matrix-esque)
- Bug fixes (of course)
- Tweaked AI use of disciplines a bit based on user feedback
- Improved collision-avoidance and pathfinding issues based on feedback
- Improvements to make the game more modifiable (changes to how files are
  found and opened at startup, mainly, easier to add templates and skins)
- Difficulty tweaked in a few key areas

For MP:

- Much lower bandwidth usage for MP games on modems
- New Storyteller abilities:
	- Rename characters in the game at will
	- Change player generation and humanity stats
	- Move NPCs between locations
- Better WON.net performance with load-balancing on chat servers, etc.

These are the main points, there are a lot of more minor tweaks throughout
the game.  Most of the changes were based on user feedback on our web site
and bug reports submitted to Activision's customer support folks.

Since this is a fairly major patch, it will undergo a full QA sweep which
will take several days, so we can't give a firm street date on the release
yet.  Size shouldn't be too bad, since the changes are primarily code and
not data.


In other news, the first of TWO demos to be released should be arriving
within a week from today and will be the Dark Ages demo, representing the
first half of the game.  There will be a second demo for the modern-day
portion of the game to follow shortly.  These demos use a newer version of 
the engine so include many of the feature additions like save-anywhere and
combat pausing.  The dark ages demo should be a bit smaller, around 87MB,
and the modern day one is a bit over 100MB.  Pretty large, but there's a lot
in there.  Hopefully you'll give them both a look, they play very differently.

Finally, the first release of the SDK happened about a week ago and has been
well received.  There is a second release in the works, the main difference
is just the inclusion of the original .MAP files for the levels in the game,
so you can see how they were constructed and play around with the original
brushes, etc.  Overall that's a good way to learn Embrace/Radiant, starting
with a map you're familiar with.  There are also some small tweaks to the 
level editing tool for the next rev, but nothing major.  If you have SDK
suggestions or requests, please use the Editing forum on our web board or
any of the other editing sites that have popped up.

As always please keep the feedback coming, all 12 of us are working hard to
address the great feedback we've been getting from the user community to 
make the game, multiplayer experence, and the SDK everything you want it to
be.


