Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Innerloop
Full Name.........Robert Huebner
Description.......Lead Programmer

2/27/01

Ok, I'll start off by saying this update doesn't contain any information 
about our next project, so apologies in advance.  We appreciate all the 
email inquiries and stuff, but its not yet time to discuss that.

I wanted to mention a course that I've been teaching for the past couple 
years through the UC Berkeley extension campus in downtown S.F.  Its a 5 
week course that runs evenings from 6:30 to 9:30 on Tuesday starting 
March 6.  The last couple years the topics were really broad, covering 
DirectDraw, DirectSound, and all that, but I've decided this year to focus 
primarily on Direct3D8 and only touch upon the other APIs where its 
necessary to get a simple game demo up and running.  I've found in the 
past that the 3D stuff was what people were mainly interested in, and 
frankly the other APIs are easy enough to learn on your own.  So this 
year's course will be a little different from before.  The course is 
geared to people that know C or C++ but haven't written a 3D game before.  
It also covers some game programming basics like simulation loops, basic 
dynamics simulation, world representation, visibilitiy, etc.  If anyone is 
curious about getting into games on the programming side please check it 
out.  I have a great time doing this each year.  The classes are usually 
really small, so its a good chance to get 1-on-1 feedback and ideas on 
your own projects.

The URL for the course info is http://www.unex.berkeley.edu/cat/326801.html
If you can't make it this semester, I'll probably be doing it again next 
year (on DX9?)

In other Nihilistic news, I'm happy to report that we've filled our recent 
job opening for an animator, and we'll have an announcement shortly about 
the new hire.  Thanks to everyone that submitted demo reels and such, and 
we'll keep everything on file for any future openings.  We're thrilled 
with the number and quality of submissions we got.  Thanks to Morgan at 
gamasutra.com and Daivd@Factor5 for directing us to "highend3d.com" to 
help spread the word, those ads really got the ball rolling.

Nihilistic folk will be speaking again at the GDC this year.  Designer 
Jacob Stephens will be hosting a level design panel including Paul J from 
Id, Dario from Valve, Eric B from Raven, and (listed last because I know 
how won't mind!) Duncan Brown from LucasArts.  Our lead LD Steve Thoms and 
artist Yujin Kiem will be doing a roundtable on LD-artist interaction.  
Anthony Chiang is repeating his highly-rated roundtable from last year on 
technical artists, and I'll be sitting in on a panel on scripting 
languages for game engines that includes Tim from Epic, and top guys from 
Bioware, LucasArts, and Microsoft.  Should be a fun year.  The keynotes 
should be good too, Iain McKaig from Lucasfilm for art, Wil Wright for 
game design, and Marivin Minsky for programming, among others.