Account Name:  Matt Wood
Email address: mattw@3drealms.com
----------





 
 
	Nick: rocksockm

	Position: Interplanetary Robot Pr0n Star (level designer)

	Project: Prey

	Email: mattw@3drealms.com

  * * * * * * * * 

  





i cant belive i forgot to update this over the weekend.  i have a little story to tell.  hursday of last week, i came home after work as usual.  but to my surprise, when i opened the door, my little kitty (Now) hadnt greeted me at the door the way she usually does.  well, at first i got a little worried that she might have gotten out.  i checked all of her usual hiding places and she was nowhere to be found.  then from the corner of the room, i heard a little squeaking noise.  i was reall nervous then because it was from behind my entertainment center and for a second i thought she might have gotten electrocuted and was sizzling back there.  so i cautiously looked behind the center and found she was lying there perfectly find, but with something under her arms which was making the squeaks.  at that point i figured a bat or a bird or something had gotten in and she was torturing it (ive had that happen before with other cats) and i really didnt look forward to disposing of it.  so i went over to turn on the light to get a better look and when i returned, my jaw dropped through the floor.  underneith my cats arms were six TINY little kittens.....all different colors.  i literally didnt know what to do.  i didnt even know she had been pregnant....it was so weird to say the least.  well, the kitties are doing fine and my cat even took the liberty of moving them herself to a 'safer' place in my closet in the bedroom.  ever see a cat carry her kittens in her mouth?  it is the coolest thing in the world.  thier eyes arent even open yet.  well none of them have really been named yet, so if anyone has any suggestions, id like to hear them.  maybe i can get joe to post a pic of them.  they are so cute   :D  yaya, john had a beautiful baby boy, but i had 6 kittens!  :D


ever notice that when you turn the 'IHOP' menus upside down, they spell 'doH!'....?  coincidence??  i think not.
 


