Account Name:  Matt Wood
Email address: mattw@3drealms.com
----------





 
 
	Nick: rocksockm

	Position: Interplanetary Robot Pr0n Star (level designer)

	Project: Prey

	Email: mattw@3drealms.com

  * * * * * * * * 

  





you have to admit, Paul rewls.  Paul Phoenix, that is... and he has cool hair  ;)  i used to be a strict Lei player in Tekken2 with the occasional Jun and Law, but this time around im 'hooked on Paul'.  sounds like a song title....
lately, a bunch of us have been getting together and beating the hell out of each other in Tekken3 at Scott's or my house.  it's alot of fun and takes off some of the stress of getting ready for E3.  well, in Scott's case, it adds more stress i suppose.  jk, Scott.  :p  
one of the reasons im using Paul so much lately, is the fact that he has very clean moves.  he does what you want him to, when you want him to.  almost street fighter reminiscent.  as opposed to Eddy(who also rewls), if you accidentally tap a button out of sequence, you get rewled on because alot of his moves need to be used as a chain and can be recognized by the opponent.  now i know he can alter high/mid/low in the combos but even i get confused trying to vary them up sometimes.  it just takes more time to get used to using him i suppose.  i just use him sometimes because i love to watch Capoeira (sp?) fighting styles.  i wish there were more fighters out there or at least more public ones.  if anyone knows where i can get any video or info on it, it would be great.  
speaking of pauls straight forward moves...im actually a much bigger fan of the '2d' fighters, than i am with the '3d' ones.  only because the action is so much faster and they make everything seem so much BIGGER.  i was so dissapointed in MK4 when it came out.  it seems they sacrificed gameplay for 3d.  that seems to be the trends now-a-days tho.  i remember begging to get off work early just so i could go to the arcade to figure out more combos in KI.  i used to have dreams about that game.  i would sit in class and dream up new combinations to try when i got out.  and then when Mk3 came out, my life was over.  if you ever wanted to find me, you knew were i was.  another thing ive always hated about the '3d' fighters was the length of the match.  in MK and SF the damage you did was so much lower than that of Tekken or VF.  along with the fact that most arcade managers had the '3d' time limits set to like 30 seconds while the '2d' were usually set to 99.  in Capcom games, you never felt like the match wat too short....there were no ultra mondo sparkly devestating moves that took off %85 of your health.  you could do a 24-hit combo and the match was only %10 over.  thats what i loved about it.  
well despite what this little outburst says, Tekken3 is a fantubulous game and were playing way too much.  oh course any views anybody has on it or any tips, just send em my way.