Current Project : Unreal 2
Position : Senior Level Designer

"Something kind of sad about the way that things have come to be...
Desensitized to everything... what's become of subtlety?" - Tool

12-23-2001 12:45 AM
---

Happy Holidays.

May your relavant gift/coal bearing diety/gnome/friend/family/whatnot bring you much joy and merriment.




11-15-2001 6:29 PM
---

Xbox + Halo + 64" HDTV + Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound = great.  You would not believe what a difference HDTV makes to the experience - I initially hooked it up with the regular video in, just because I didn't want to mess with the HDTV cables, then I switched over to 1080 HDTV.  Not only is it visually far more sharp, colorful and impressive, but splitscreen multiplayer goes from being a confusing mucky mess to being very playable and fun.  I'm wondering if there is a way to split the screen vertically rather than horizontally, given that a widescreen HDTV makes it a bit more ideal to normal aspect ratio that way.  The surround sound works quite well also.  

Kudos to Bungie for a great experience.

6-27-2001 4:56 PM
---


I'm headed off to Japan for a bit of a break tomorrow.  Maybe I'll head up to Hokkaido this time, I hear it's beautiful this time of year.  Gonna hook up with P-Chan there and hit the sites.



Nope, again no Unreal 2 info here, just time to clear out the pretentious crap of my last update.  :)
Silly I know, but the 01-6-18 date reminded me of phi...


01.618 12:45 
Restate my assumptions
---












Liber Abaci




1-2-2001 10:56 PM
---

If you're looking for anything useful or Unreal 2 related, look elsewhere.  Sorry - but we can't talk yet. :)  I'm working away on levels and various stuff as usual.  

Finally saw Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon yesterday.  I thought it was a great movie - if you are at all a fan of kung fu, dramas, or just beautiful cinematics, you should see this film.  I hope we see more movies of this style and caliber in the future.  

Had good holidays.  It was nice to see my family and some of my friends after a year...  

Going back to old games, I finally dug up Samurai Spirits RPG after passing on it when it originally came out.  I'd never heard a lot of good stuff about it, unfortunately, but I figure I need to play it, given my fanatical devotion to the fighter series.  I'm only a few hours in, it's slow going given the bulk of Japanese.  It is good practice for my rusty brain however, as my knowledge has been steadily leaking away over the years.  It's overly linear so far, with large parts of the world map limited by torii gates until you finish the one place in that part of the world, sadly.  It does have some promise and novel ideas however, and the art, given the age of the neogeo is very impressive.  I'm enjoying it more than I expected to, but the jury is still out right now.

My NeoCD is the original model, the slow 1x speed.  Load times were simply unbearable for SSRPG, so I've been playing it on a PC NeoCD emulator where the load times are almost instant.  The only problem there is I'm missing out on the sound.  It seems unwilling to support my win2k soundblaster live setup.  If anyone out there has any ideas on how to get the NeoCD emulator working with that, I'd love to be able to play it with SNK's wonderful music and sound.  Drop me an email if you've got any answers at sdalton@legendent.com.

Speaking of NeoGeo's...  I recently purchased an arcade NeoGeo stand up arcade machine from ebay.  I even found a samsho 64 cart and hyper neogeo motherboard for it.  Yeah, it's sick, but damnit - Samurai Spirits deserves more credit than it ever got.  I've always wanted to have an arcade machine, and even though I really have no need for an aging neogeo considering I've already got a home system, I can't think of another setup I'd rather have.  Well, okay - perhaps the Japanese dual monitor sit down version, but hey, I'll live.

Anyway, back to work...  Another useless .plan update to contribute to the compost heap.

10-20-2000 2:31 PM
---

Seanbaby - I love you.

http://www.seanbaby.com/news/nike.htm


9-24-2000 3:03 AM
---

Well, I've seen it reported incorrectly on three sites now, so I figured I should post a note.  

Chris Hargrove is not working in North Carolina at Epic.  He's actually here at Legend Entertainment in Virginia.

Yes, he's working away with us on Unreal 2.  He's originally from this area, and we've been working with him on and off since he came back in August, although he officially began at the beginning of this month.  

He's fitting right into the team here, and has been able to jump right into working on the project full speed.  And we've got a fresh fighter in our Soul Calibur ritual. :)

I guess this has turned into a "Welcome to the Team, Chris!" .plan update, but anyway, those are the facts. 

I finished ChronoCross this afternoon...  

Back to work I suppose.   Speaking of work - I'm working to finish up some levels for testing and use with some various gameplay programming stuff.  I'll be working with Mark get it all going, now that he's finished up all his Unreal Gold work and fully back onto Unreal 2 stuff.  I'd go into more detail if I could, but that'd be a no-no.  A new Legend website should be going up pretty soon though - perhaps there will be something to wet some appetites.  Geoff, our one off-site LD is coming in next week so that we have a chance to meet him in person.  

As long as I've got a convenient segue to travel, I'd might as well mention I'm heading to Japan for a little bit of down time in a few weeks.  Its been several years since I came back, so I'm looking forward to visiting again.  I'll be heading to Osaka and Kobe this time around.  While I've visited places all around Honshu, I haven't been to either of these cities before - it should be an adventure.


9-22-2000 1:01 PM
---

The brutal truth comes out!



we see Warren, sitting at his desk, hard at work...   don't we?


Now for the harsh reality.


Warren has been thrown down the stairs once too many, and his killer has craftily replaced him.  My ninja-spy network has captured the truth on film, but how long will it take to bring his killer to justice?



8-29-2000 11:42 AM
---

I'm really excited about DirectX 8's new features - in particular, DirectCrate - check out this info :

About DirectCrate
DirectCrate