September 5, 2000 2:35 PM


The Winners of the Fan Voting in the QuakeCon2000 Map Object Model Contest

The votes are in and the totals tabulated. The QuakeCon 2000 Map Object Model contest at last draws to an end. The Quake III Arena map-making community will soon have a new set of objects with which to craft their worlds. The contest sponsors, including id Software, Discreet (makers of 3D Studio Max modeling software), Nvidia (makers of the GeForce line of graphic acceleration processors), QuakeCon 2000, and PlanetQuake are pleased to announce the contest winners.

How the Votes were scored.
In the main contest, fans could cast four votes. One for first place, one for second place, one for third place, and a fourth for honorable mention. This was the same method as used for the professional judging that took place prior to QuakeCon 2000. Votes in each category were assigned a point weighting. The model with the highest overall point score took first place, the next highest second place and so on.

Awarding of Prizes:
	The prizes in the main voting category of the contest were the same for both the professional judging and the fan voting. The intent of the contest was to both promote model making and put professional tools and equipment provided by the sponsors into the hands of as many modelers as possible. Given this, the contest officials have chosen to invoke a rule that allows them to award prizes at their discretion. All prizes will be awarded, but winners of the fan voting will not receive the same prize(s) that they won in the professional judging.

Additionally, each contest entrant will receive a QuakeCon 2000 t-shirt, compliments of id Software and QuakeCon 2000.

The fans have spoken and here is what they have to say:

Honorable Mention: 
	Angel by Tamara "Ophelia" Crossley. This model depicts an angel statue, similar to what one might find in an old cemetery. It comes with three different skin variations. As her prize, Tamara earns a set of four signed drake lithographs by id designer Paul Jaquays and a print from Discreet featuring the characters of Quake III Arena.

Third Place:
	Drola by Bjornar Johansen. This unusual light model consists of a glowing, spiky ball floating above an organic support stand. As noted above, Bjornar will receive a full edition of 3Dstudio Max R3 and Character Studio 2.2 from Discreet, and a GeForce 2 3D graphic acceleration card.

Second Place:
	Bloodstone by Andrew "ALPHAwolf" Gilmour. The Bloodstone is an eerie pillar of rock, carved with horrific images and forming an ever-flowing fountain of blood. Bloodstone was the first place winner in the professional judging contest. For Bloodstone, Andrew takes home the prize of a Planet Quake bomber style jacket and a metal box edition of Quake III Arena signed by the current id crew.

First Place:
	Flame by Andrew "ALPHAwolf" Gilmour. The runes on this gloomy statue of a robed warrior flicker and glow in time with the dancing flame on the warrior’s fiery sword. Flame was the honorable mention winner in the professional judging contest. Having already taken home the first place prize from the professional judging, Andrew will receive a Limited Edition, signed and number lithograph print "Dragon’s Crag" by id designer Paul Jaquays, and a print from Discreet featuring the characters of Quake III Arena.

Moving on to the Specialty Categories, here are the winners in each category:

Sweetest Eye Candy. The model whose combination of shaders, textures and craftsmanship made it distinctly not hard to look at:
	Bloodstone by Andrew "ALPHAwolf“ Gilmour with 82 votes.

Most Awesomely Gothic. The model that would best fit into a "Gothic" Q3A setting (the ones typified by dark stone, teeth, lava, and lots of sharp pointy bits): 
	Bloodstone by Andrew "ALPHAwolf" Gilmour with 54 votes.

Industrial Magic. The model that best fits in with the futuristic military-industrial environment most commonly called "base style": 
	Judge by Bjornar Johansen with 39 votes. The Judge model depicts a statue of a stern, barbarian warrior passing judgment on a contest.

The Real Thing. The model that says "I belong in maps depicting settings found in the Real World":
	Multi-Plant by Todd Gantzler with 35 votes. Multi-plant was a single model with eight separate skins that depicted a variety of plant types.

Most Likely to be Mistaken for a Marital Aid. The model that ... ummm ... well ... er ... should need no explanation:
	Multi-Plant by Todd Gantzler with 49 votes.

Most Versatile. The model that can go anywhere and work with anything:
	Multi-Plant by Todd Gantzler with 49 votes.

Most Artistic: The model that stands by itself as a true work of art:
	Hprtl by Peter B