Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Scott Rice
Email: srice@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Artist
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 05/26/1999 11:25:25 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
We on the SoF team are very excited by E3's response to the game.  It has been nearly a year that we've been busting our butts on the
project, so the positive reaction feels great.  I'd like to thank some people in the art dept. for their contribution to the demo:  senior 
animator Eric Turman for his technical innovations and animation skills that made the quality and quantity of anims possible, Jarrod 
Showers for his huge contribution to the enemy animations and his brilliant animation of the weapons, Joe Koberstein for his 
understanding of the GHOUL rendering system and fantastic gore effects, Gina Garren and Kevin Long for their unmatched texture and
skin painting, Bobby Duncanson for his destroyable object models, and everyone else who contributed to Soldier of Fortune's success
at E3.  I'd also like to thank all the programmers and designers on the project who have been the best teammates I've ever worked
 with on a game.

Here is an exerpt from a memo regarding SOF animation I sent out awhile ago.  Some people might find it interesting. . .

The motion capture session in LA happened around Sept. 15.  I directed the shoot with Eric Turman's help.  It took a month and a half for
 Eric and House of Moves to perfect a system that allowed us full control of the motion capture.  This was imperative because, in games, 
the animation has to work together in real time--there is no cutting to hide the fact that anims don’t “match up” like there is in movies and 
animated cinematic sequences.  We have to be able to manipulate the motion capture. . .

1)	to eliminate “popping” due to changes in body position
2)	to exaggerate the movement so that it looks dynamic on a simple model and from distances
3)	to “fix” the problems that occur when you go from 60 Hz to a 10 Hz (our game speed)

Eric Turman's accomplishment of allowing "fully tweakable motion capture" was unprecedented according to House of Moves who 
works with premier effects houses like Digital Domain, ILM, etc.   It took awhile to get working, but it was worth it!   I always say, even if we do 
80% of what we planned on this game, it will still be light years ahead of what we have seen in first person shooters to date.

Just wanted to congratulate Gil Gribb, Eric Turman and others on perfecting an animation work flow that is so streamlined that we have
nearly all of the enemy animations complete for the entire game!  (and we are months away from release!)  We have applied roughly 
420 animations to our models.  One of our animators (Jarrod Showers) applies as many as 6 per day!  Congratulations, guys.  Now
we have extra time to spend on the vast cinematics for the game as well as perfecting the non-human enemies.