Login: nikki                           Name: Nikki Taylor                            
No project.
Plan:
Nikki Allen Taylor
Director of Business Development

Zen Tao Interactive  -  http://zentao.unrealengine.com 

Email: nikki@zentao.unrealengine.com
Project: Extreme Wing Chun VR for Unreal/UT

Monday, January 24th

Give a girl a plan and watch out world! :-)

Guess I'll start off by ranting a bit about what I do over here and how
I got involved with Alex's "roller coaster" as I like to call it. 

Don't get me wrong, I love working with the boys, and it's a learning
experience everyday. I call it a roller coaster because of the mixed
duties that never seem to end. On the one hand I'm trusted with managing
the business of wholesale and the sales team, which takes up most of my
day (it can drive a girl insane!). I mean, these boys are crazy and super
stressed out most of the time, and it does rub off on me. On the other hand
I have Zen Tao, which is a lot less "volatile". We chug along at our own
pace and it's methodic and I get a chance to call on my real skills, as
opposed to purchasing/accounting for our other biz which can be an excersize
in hair pulling and teeth gnashing (sometimes not my own!) come month's end.

I shouldn't complain though.. what more can a girl ask for? I have my own
office (with a picture view of the port of montreal), I work with some of
the most talented people I have ever met, and the surroundings and work
environment just blooms incredible once 5pm comes and Zen Tao comes into
play! It's like Dr. Jeckll and Mr Hyde! The lighting changes, music gets
piped through the system (I've got the remote), Neil waltzes in, and Alex
actually let's his hair down for a night's work (he can be unbearable when
it comes to the day's business, just drives me CRAZY sometimes!).

What matters is that at the end of the week, when I go home for my 2 days
rest, I feel like I've really accomplished something of value. Zen Tao has
a bright future, no one here doubts that for a second. Still what makes me
most happy is the feeling I get of belonging when I come in the door every
day. Not many people can say that now can they? :-)

luv,
Nikki

No public key.