Grant Roberts, aka Superburger, aka The Amazing Food Man (known at Xatrix for some inexplicable reason), aka Strawberry Tallcake, aka Hellmonkey, aka Giant Haystacks, aka Spike.

Aaaagh!  No, I can't tell you anything about Unreal 2.  Stop asking!  Soon, all will be revealed.  Well, some will be revealed.  Well, maybe not.  But we're not going to keep quiet about the game forever.

I'm in the process of redesigning the Legend web site.  Please, for the love of god, don't go there until it's finished.

So anyway.

I'm an RPG addict.  Some people smoke (hey, wait, I do that too); some people drink (hmm, this analogy isn't working out); I play RPG's.  Ever seen Mallrats?  I'm just like Brodie.  Only instead of leaving All-Star Hockey running on my Sega Saturn all night so I can continue to annihilate the Vancouver Canucks by ten goals, I park myself on my couch with a carton of Camel Wides, a twelve-pack of Diet Pepsi, and the occasional Dorito, and sit there slack-jawed for sixteen hours a day playing shitty RPGs.

I'm the in the middle of such a shitty RPG now.  I'm only playing it to tide me over until Chrono Cross comes out in...oh goody, less than a month.  I've lost count of the number of RPG's I've bought over the years, but this one is at least the fifth I've bought this year.  Hell, Square is putting out at least six this year alone.  I've already finished Vagrant Story and Legend of Dragoon.  Legend of Mana is completely incomprehensible to me, so I'm playing this new one.

I don't exaggerate when I say it's a shitty RPG.  Some of the design choices are so ridiculous that my brow is furrowing in puzzlement even as I write this.

A few things leap to mind, however.

(Actually, they don't "leap to mind"--I wrote them down so I would have something interesting to say in my new plan file)

1. Ever see Galaxy Quest?  You know the scene towards the end when Tim Allen and Sigourney Weaver have to navigate the alarming Indiana Jones-looking obstacle course?  You remember what she said?  No, not "Fuck that", although that was the funniest line in the movie.  After that.  She said something like "Why would anyone ever build something like this?!"  I ran into something similar last night.  I was exploring an abandoned facility in the middle of a desert when I came across a strange room.  It contained dozens of small "pedestals", for lack of a better word.  All of them were surrounded by nothingness on all sides, except for a single pillar in the middle of each one.  The room was filled with these things!  I had to use a new tool, called the "Wire Hook", to pull myself from pillar to pillar.  Why would anyone ever build something like this?  I mean, humans used to work in this place.  Did they all have a "Wire Hook"?  Why is there no floor in this place?

2. I can understand the need to force the player to fight at times.  But let me tell you something.  If I want to run away from a monster ten times my size, and it doesn't have any legs, I THINK I'D HAVE A PRETTY GOOD CHANCE!  Good lord, I've actually played RPGs before where I was unable to run away from a SLIME.  A FUCKING SLIME!  Good lord, it's a SLIME, for crying out loud.  It's not a cheetah.  If I want to run away, LET ME RUN AWAY!  Oh, and I don't think I'd be "Surprised!" by a bright blue monster in the middle of the orange desert.  Thanks.

3. If I beat on a boss for fifteen minutes, and inflict sixty-five thousand points of damage to him without breaking a sweat, then theoretically, I could kill him if I fought him long enough.  So don't have said boss end the fight, saying something inane like "Is that your best effort?  I'll let you go...for now."  What do you mean, you'll let me go?  I just hit you with fifty castings of "Ultima"!

4. Omnipotent people who don't share their knowledge with the rest of the world piss me off.  If I had a nickel for every time someone walked onto the screen alone and thought to themselves (He can't be awakening yet!) or some such nonsense...well, I'd probably have 45 or 50 cents.  But the point is, it happens too much.  And why are YOU the leader?  I'm the one busting my ass out in the Phantom Forest killing giant mutated flowers!  I could use a limit break on you and reduce you to ash, and you're still telling me what to do?!  I want to do my own dirty work, not be told "I give you a new mission!  Go escort the king's son!"

5. Why is it that whenever you fight someone who eventually ends up in your party, they are a complete badass?  They never end up that way once they join up with you.  Yuffie from Final Fantasy VII was the most glaring example of this.  She was doing all kinds of fancy shit when I fought her for the first time, but once she joined up, she was probably the most useless character in the group.  Well, except for Cait Sith.  What the hell was up with HIM, anyway?

I think that's about enough for now.  Matt's standing over my shoulder, and he wants some attention, I guess, so it's time to go put on the gorilla suit.