Grant Roberts, aka Superburger, aka The Amazing Food Man (known at Xatrix for some inexplicable reason), aka Strawberry Tallcake, aka Hellmonkey, aka Giant Haystacks, aka Spike.

Last week, I talked about a shitty RPG.  While it certainly did have its flaws, the overall experience I had during the game was a positive one.  It was Wild Arms 2.  I recommend it to anyone who can't wait until Chrono Cross comes out.

Now, on to non-shitty RPGs.

I met Warren Spector very briefly when I worked at Next Generation.  He seemed like a very cool, down-to-earth guy; something that sometimes seems lacking in this industry at the top levels of the heirarchy.  He's also contributed to some of my all-time favorite games.  Underworlds, System Shocks, Crusaders, Wing Commanders, Thiefs.  (Thieves?)

Along with Richard Garriott, he has given me what I eventually hope to give to all of you (the 4 people that are reading this): a boundlessly enjoyable experience while playing a game.

That's why I'm in this industry, you know.  Getting to make games for a living (which I will do eventually, oh yes) is pretty damn cool, but I think my primary motivation is to make others feel the same way that I've felt while playing games in the past.

I'm getting off the point.

Yes, I had a point.

Deus Ex has always intrigued me.  I didn't really know anything about it until earlier this year, but I'd heard the buzz about it for months before that.  "It's like System Shock 2, only with live people."  "It's a first-person action RPG with a compelling storyline."  "It's not Daggerfall."

When I downloaded the demo earlier this month, I was underwhelmed, to say the least.  The combat was atrocious.  There was no "stealth" to speak of.  You couldn't hold a sniper rifle straight no matter how much you were trained in it.  I hated it.  I uninstalled it almost immediately, and sneered whenever anyone mentioned the game.

Last Friday, after several e-mails circulated in which I was informed that the price had dropped to $25 at Best Buy, I finally relented and plunked down the cash.  That was an entire paycheck!

Now, I'll be the first person to admit I was wrong.

Okay, that's not true.

But I was wrong about Deus Ex.  Do you hear me?  I WAS WRONG ABOUT DEUS EX.  SHUT UP, CRAIG!

It's easily the best PC game I've played this year, and quite possibly the best PC game I've played in a long, long time.  So to the entire team, you all have my congratulations.  For whatever that's worth.

Unfortunately, I read Brandon's plan file detailing the three endings before I even played the game, thinking that I would never play it, let alone finish it.  So that was kinda annoying.  But I still had a blast playing it.

One of the coolest things about it was its elasticity.  I know this has been raved about to no end, but maybe someone will read this and buy the game based on my opinions.  If you think you can do something in the game, you can probably do it.  I don't want to sneak around the entire base to find the key, so I'll just fire a GEP gun into each building like some demented Orkin man.  I don't want to have a long, drawn-out boss fight, so I'll use these HE rounds I've been saving up.  I don't want to make a frontal assault on the research complex, so I'll sneak around and zap people unconscious.  I don't want to pay 2000 credits to be shown around the downstairs lab, so I'll just hack a computer to find an access code, then zap someone unconscious, only to get the same code I just hacked a few minutes ago.  Whoops.  :)

People are going to compare Unreal 2 to Deus Ex.  Maybe favorably, maybe unfavorably--that's not the point.  The point is that in my opinion, there's a new standard for single-player first-person games.  If developers aspire to make a game that's as good, or better than Deus Ex, then that can't be anything but good.