Grant Roberts, aka Superburger, aka The Amazing Food Man (known at Xatrix for some inexplicable reason), aka Strawberry Tallcake, aka Hellmonkey, aka Giant Haystacks, aka Spike.

Nothing new on Unreal 2 to report.  Well, actually, there's a lot of new things, but I can't report any of them.  Please, everyone, be patient.  We know you all want a small speck of information, but speaking for myself (and I know a lot of other people on the team are in the same situation), I'm not in a position to give it to you.

So I'm still waiting for Chrono Cross to come out.  One of my friends (lifelong friends, that is--I can't believe I've actually known him for over TWENTY YEARS now [I'm 25, by the way]) recently finished Chrono Trigger, during which he tied up my TV for quite a while.  I would occasionally glance over my shoulder and see him get to an especially cool part of the game, and have to stop myself from saying "YEAH, THAT PART ROCKS!".

Once the TV freed up, however, I set about going back and trying to get into a game that sorely disappointed me the first time around.  A game that, almost a year after its release, still has the #5 most requested FAQ on GameFAQs (what a great site).  A game that...oh, never mind.  It's Final Fantasy VIII.

The first time I played through the game, we were in crunch mode for Wheel of Time.  Consequently, I didn't have much time to play it, and when I did, I wasn't too lucid.  We (well, some of us) were pulling 16- to 18- hour days, seven days a week at that point.  I was "lucky", in that I didn't come on board until late August, so I only got three months of crunch mode.

(Don't get me wrong, though, I loved every minute of it.)

My point is that I don't think I gave it a good chance the first time I played through it.

Actually, no, that's not true.  I went in to FF8 with no knowledge of it at all, except for the three main characters' names.  Every time I would see something about it on a news site, I would close the window.  Whenever I would see a commercial on TV, I would change the channel.  I wanted to avoid the problem I had with Final Fantasy VII; I was completely inundated with information by it, to the point where there were no surprises at all when I finally got to play the game.  So, bottom line (since I tend to ramble way too much in these things), I had a completely clean slate going into Final Fantasy VIII.

That wasn't necessarily a good thing.  I spent the first two hours of the game trying futilely to understand the "Junctioning" system.  It seemed even more complicated than FF7's Materia system, while providing almost none of the benefits.

The characters were not very well defined.  Yes, Squall was a dick.  Mm hmm, I know, Quistis is insecure.  Sure, Zell is brash.  Okay, Seifer is evil.  Jesus, alright, Irvine is a lech.

The story was not really very good.  You see, there's a sorceress, and she wants to take over the world.  Only this ragtag band of young warriors can stop her.

The game was next to impossible in some spots.  I just breezed through the game, following the plot, not stopping to level or do anything special.  By the end of the game, I was getting my ass kicked all over Ultimecia Castle.

When I went through the game this time, however, everything fell into place.  The one-dimensional characters all concealed deeper personalities.  The story, while maybe a bit clichéd, wasn't really the story.  Squall and Rinoa were the story.  The game was a lot easier (and more fun to play) once I started understanding the junctioning system, and taking the time to draw enough magic.

So I had a blast this time through, right up to and including the ending.  And oh, that ending.  If nothing else, the ending is THE BEST ENDING EVER, IN ANY VIDEO GAME.  It's true, it's true.

I had originally set out to talk about the difference between console and PC RPG's in this "plan update".  (And good lord, "talk about"?  It sounds like I fancy myself a keynote speaker to an audience of two)  However, I seem to have run a bit long.  Maybe I'll do that next time.

Oh, and Brandon, you're right about Threads of Fate.  Yawn.  A bit too cartoony for my taste, especially after the ultra-serious FF8 for 60 hours.