Grant Roberts, aka Superburger, aka The Amazing Food Man (known at Xatrix for some inexplicable reason), aka Strawberry Tallcake, aka Hellmonkey, aka Giant Haystacks, aka Spike.

So, Unreal 2.  Right.

Hey, guess what?  Still nothing new to report.  Sorry.  We've got some sweet stuff brewing, though.  Aaron continues to alarm me with his tendency for creating cool things.

I'm still redesigning the Legend site.  I think everyone will like it--thank goodness I got some help from some of our artists.

Finished Chrono Cross in four days.  Yikes.  Was originally super-pissed at the ending I got.  Read a FAQ, realized that I had to do something completely obscure and unintuitive to get a "good ending".  Did that.  Not much better.

Great game, though.  Probably the best RPG for the PlayStation, although Xenogears is still way up there.

The summer of RPG's is over, though.  Bummer.  Square stumbled a bit with Threads of Fate and Legend of Mana, but Vagrant Story and Chrono Cross should be enough to keep them at the top of the heap.

Especially since it doesn't seem like anyone is interested in challenging them for the console RPG market.  At least over here.  At least not yet.

So anyway.

If you had any doubts that our government is nuzzling up to the collective crack pipe, check this out:

"In the aftermath of nearly 30 deaths in recent school shootings, the FBI is about to unveil a controversial study guide aimed at helping teachers identify the next kid most likely to pull a gun on his or her classmates.

...CBS News has obtained an early look at the report. The FBI insists it is 'not a checklist,' but it is nonetheless filled with checklist-type warning signs. 

Teachers, for example, are cautioned to watch for students who display 'recurring themes of violence in writing and artwork,' students who are 'rigid and opinionated' and tend to 'rule the roost' at home."

Let me re-emphasize part of that.

"...students who are 'rigid and opinionated'".

Now I think it's a damned shame what happened in Colorado and Kentucky recently.  But it wasn't Marilyn Manson's fault.  It wasn't Judas Priest's fault when those two morons shot themselves so many years ago.

Even the kids who shot up Columbine High aren't completely to blame for what they did.  If they would have had a decent upbringing, I think they may have drawn doodles of blowing up their school.  But they sure as hell wouldn't have taken an arsenal into class like they did.  It's all in the parenting, folks.

I was exposed to burning crosses on the front lawn of my high school.  For my junior and senior years, there were fights almost every day between the black and white kids.  Our school nickname was the "Rebels", with a confederate flag featuring prominently in many logos.

Did this turn me into an illiterate, shotgun-rack building, tobacco-chewing, NASCAR-watching, pickup-driving racist?  No.  Because I knew better.  Because my parents raised me to know better.

This new FBI report baffles me.  Teachers can potentially look at a student who is "rigid and opinionated" (read: "doesn't necessarily swallow all the bullshit that this country tries to shovel down our throats"), and blacklist them for the rest of their LIVES.

I mean, good god.  What's next?  Really.  What's next?