Well, I finished implementing the legendent.com web site this morning.  It took remarkably little time once all the pieces fell into place.

I'd like to publicly thank Martin Sawkins, one of our resident limey soccer lovers here, for all the art on the site.  It looks great, and I hope you all like it.

Yes, I know it's all broken and stuff in Netscape.  I'm working on it.  Don't e-mail me.

Unreal 2 is still proceeding according to plan.  I hope everyone has bought the April PC Gamer with the nine-page Unreal 2 cover story.  It's one of the most glowing articles I've ever seen, and hey, it's about Unreal 2, which is a nice bonus.  :)  Like Craig said, the unreal2.com site is also about to go live very soon.  Which is nice, since I think everyone was getting a little tired of those scary transparent .GIFs on the old site.

I've hit a dry spell for playing games.  Most of January and February was spent playing Phantasy Star Online, and spending 160 hours killing Delsabers with Hakaisha (my RAmar main character) until he was level 93.  Of course, now Scott and Aaron have stopped playing, so I have too.  It's a shame, really, especially since I went out and bought that Sega 4x VMU and made four new characters (Zaelunas [FOmar], Buzama[HUmar], Adeyaka[FOnewearl], and Kisokuen'en[RAcaseal]) that will likely never get used.

I had fun with it, of course.  After all, I wouldn't have played ~200 hours of it if I didn't.  It's just a shame that (a) there aren't more areas to explore, and (b) most of the people on the servers, much like most of the people on the Internet, are complete morons.

So now, just like there aren't any real sports to watch for five months once the NHL and NBA playoffs are over, there aren't any cool RPGs coming out anytime soon that I'm looking forward to.  I'll probably buy Paper Mario, but other than that, I don't see much.  Last year was incredible, with what...ten awesome console RPG's to play?  This year, I'm not seeing much of anything until FFX.  Ah well.

Anyway, nice talking to you.  Pick up the magazine.  Buy the game.  Visit the web site.  See the amazing contemplative mastermind monkey.  Talk to you later.

-Grant