Account Name:  Scott McCabe
Email address: scottmc@3drealms.com
----------
Name   : Scott of Borg (the other one)
Project: Prey
Email  : scottmc@3drealms.com
--------------------------------------


Thanks for the email on what to write about. This .plan stuff tends to get kinda funky sometimes but now I have some direction
on what to talk about without rambling on too much. First off, you won't find any new Prey info here (that's what the web page for ;)) but instead I'd like to write about the art world and try to explore many different avenues for the digital artist.


VFX-Mass Destrucion
-------------------

Being an artist that likes to dabble in Effects Animation I thought it would be cool to seek out some pages that talk about this kind of stuff. Took a while (either I'm not
a pro-surfer or they really are hard to find) but I found 'em. 


  3DArk  (news,showcases,reviews,articles) -   http://www.3dark.com/

  Visual Magic (news,reviews,tips)         -   http://www.visualmagic.co.uk/

  Visual Effects HQ (SFX reviews,articles) -   http://www.vfxhq.com/


The funny thing, is that this is kind of a 'dark-art' or so it would seem. There's really no info that details how to do this or how to do that. You really kind of have to figure it out yourself and by the process of trial & error manage to squeaze something cool out. Unless you get to go to a good school like Sheridan College (Oakville, Ont) or something like that then you're pretty much on your own. It might take you a little
longer but if you can imagine it, you can do it (tho, drawing helps too;)). 

The general rule that I go by is, "Does it look real?". Could I put this right next to a photograph and not be able to tell the difference. Another good thing is to pick out movies and pics that show what type of effect you're trying to do (it's a good place to start) and gives you something to identify with. 

I found a few good excercizes on would be to take still images and alter them. Like, take pics of cities and wipe-em out, grab some movie stills and try your own hand at compositing or even find a real cool movie effect and try duplicating it. Either way it's a cool way to start. Oh, just go easy on the lens flares.  :)

Tho I don't consider myself to be an authority in this field and these are just my observations through playing with my own 
different scenarios. VFX has always interested me and plus it makes a good hobby. 

If you have any comments or feedback, mail me! :)