Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Jeremy Statz
Email: jstatz@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 07/19/1998 03:01:10 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7/19/98

The Devil albury and his minions cower in fear at the scrength of our resolve.  The Free Democratic Union of Ranch shall soon overrun his puny "nation."

In other news, bought a game gear and a few games, along with Bubble Bobble for the Saturn.  Life is good.

Heretic 2's moving along really well... a lot of minor control issues are going away and the cool little details are starting to emerge.  I'm starting to feel really good about it and how everything's going with my maps.  The fire kicks ass, the gore and severed limbs fly freely (well, when you use your halberd... tough to sever limbs with a fireball), and the AI stuff is getting really neat.  The buoys give enough control that monsters can be made to do some really interesting, complicated stuff if the situation calls for it.

Also, Scott doesn't kid, that blood Nathan implemented just rules.

7/11/98

Two days ago the Devil albury openly attacked the beliefs and good morals of the Free Democratic Union of Ranch, claiming that the Devil italian dressing was superior.  This is clearly an act of aggression on the part of the Devil albury and the puppet "government" he leads.

In a .plan update on Thursday the ninth of September, in this year 23 of grand Chairman Sengele, the Devil albury claimed the superiority of Devil italian.  Boastfully claiming of its spicy flavor, he mocked the FDUR as fattening.  Worse, true to his filthy revisionist ways, he went on to describe the watery and weak consistency of Devil italian dressing as an advantage.  This despite past evidence that the Devil italian dressing, because of this all-consuming weakness, groups in crevasses and unwashed gutters without adequately fulfilling the needs of the nation.

This distortion of the truth on the Devil albury's part will not be tolerated by the good people of the Free Democratic Union of Ranch.  The lack of compassion and justice demonstrated by his update causes the people to quake in anger, and the government of Ranch, being a servant to the people, must request a formal apology.  We believe it quite evident that the Devil albury has wronged our way of life, and that his update is clearly an act of war.

The grand Republic of Thousand Island has ceased trade with the Devil italian dressing as a show of solidarity with their Ranch brethren.

7/1/98

Personally, I have seven things bookmarked.  Had around 15 once, but never more.

Took my car in for repairs yesterday.  Painful verdict -- an air suspension system is NOT a cheap thing to get fixed, especially when it's ten years old and could use general maintenance beyond the repairs.  I love my car, but I could've bought an old MR2 for the money the parts and labor's costing me, which is actually an interesting concept now that I think of it...

6/30/98

I wish great harm on whoever that freak is that's responsible for the constant Bullseye Gold mailings.

6/25/98

Whee, new Saturn games!

Got my copy of Salamander Deluxe a few days ago.  Very nice collection of Konami's two Salamader games plus the semi-bastardized US version, Life Force (much cooler on the NES than it was in the arcade).  This was money well spent, as the NES Life force reigns as my fourth favorite shooter of all time, and the japan-only sequal, Salamander 2, is at least as cool.  

It also features probably one of the coolest boss entrances I've ever seen -- at the end of the first level you face off with a big mutated brain thing, very similar to the first level boss of the first game.  I'm seeing this and thinking, "Cool, they brought it back!" and proceed to start dodging its lasers and pounding on it... for about five seconds.  Then a hugeass snakelike monster lunges onscreen from the right, grabs the former boss in its mouth, then proceeds to chew it up (while the brain thing thrashes around in its jaws and bleeds) and swallow it.  It was glorious.

I also seriously dig the rendered intro, randomized between the first and second game, of the Vic Vipers flying their way through the first level, fighting the various enemies and bosses and stuff.  Nice quality, with good music to back them up.  THIS is how to open a compilation disc.

At the same time I picked up the import of Vampire Savior and the necessary 4 meg ram cart.  Was kind of disappointed that they changed the round system to the keep-your-life-bar crap pioneered by the king of cheap fighting games, Killer Instinct.  Hard to say anything else about the game isn't great, though.  Beautiful anime-style art and extremely smooth animation (making full use of that tripled RAM the cart gives it), and some really cool characters (most notably the evil Little Red Riding Hood).  Gameplay is as smooth, or smoother, than the previous DarkStalkers games.  I couldn't ask for more.

Nicest of all, load times are almost nonexistant.  Several seconds of loading when you start the game, then nothing beyond a half-second pause before a round afterwards.

Also came across a copy of Bust a Move 2 for $10 and Darius Gaiden for $15 at Toys R Us.  I couldn't be expected to resist that, naturally.  Oh yeah, and I don't dis Frank!  Chill, man, chill!

6/21/98

Been working on a new, nicely small and simple map and I'm fairly happy with.  Nice break from the giant sprawling levels I've been doing otherwise.

The X-Files movie was quite good... didn't talk down to longtime viewers like I figured it would, answered a fair number of questions and presented a few new ones.  Overall the equivelant of a long, good, episode of the series -- basically what I was hoping for.  Was annoyed by one scene, but I'm sick of reading .plan updates that give away chunks of plot so maybe I'll whine about it in a month or so.

6/17/98

Walked by Chris Foster's office and saw him sitting crosslegged, hovering a foot or so above his desk, chanting some weird latin thing.  Huh.

Should be getting my copies of Salamander Deluxe and Vampire Savior today...

6/15/98

Ben Gokey snagged the backlit gameboy that had been mocking me so.  Now that the option's no longer open I regret not buying it.  heh

If anybody's interested, I released a Hexen 2 single-player map today.  There's a link on Hexenworld, or grab it at ftp.cdrom.com/pub/hexen2/incoming/buriedspire.zip.  

6/15/98

Sitting here at 3:30 in the morning finishing up a Hexen 2 map I've had mostly done for a while now.  Probably upload it to cdrom.com or something tomorrow...

Listening to the music from various games to keep me adequately distracted from the fact that nobody else is here.  Total Annihilation's music at the moment.  Was listening to the music from Dark Reign and its expaision earlier.  Pretty cool stuff, really.  Activision knows their game music.

Bought Virtua Fighter 2 for the Saturn at Blockbuster for $10.  Probably going to order Legend of Oasis and Darius Gaiden (2/$25) tomorrow, and my copy of Panzer Dragoon Saga should be showing up before long.  It's a wonderful thing when good game systems die.

6/12/98

Finally got a copy of Lunar: Eternal Blue for the Sega CD.  Cool.

Watching Nathan play Contra: Hard Corps on an emulator a couple nights ago made me realize just how cool hoards of enemies that die really easy are.  Gonna have to start keeping that more in mind as I build these levels, as building the architecture around the enemies I want to throw at the player is domething I've been getting farther and farther from recently, and it's a shame.  I remember building doom levels where basically the whole point of the map was to hide and present hoards of stuff to kill, instead of the quasi-realism we keep going for more recently.  I prefer the former approach to play, really, but when things like setting and plot start getting in there it makes that method of design harder to do.  Why in the world would that big section of the wall open up and release a dozen monsters?  What were they doing there anyway?  Should we just say who cares and build that sort of thing, or try to stick to semi-realistic structures without such nonsense?

It's definitely possible to do things like that anyway while still adhering to realism somewhat, but the theme of an individual level can dictate how well it'd fit in.  I could call a map "The Transporter Complex" and feel free to have monsters teleporting in because after all, it IS a transporter complex.  Harder to do with a more mundane setting, though.  In Doom there was a nice overarcing excuse: it's hell.

This was all sort of a weird epiphany to me, really.  Started thinking about games I used to play and what I play now... I spent a LOT of time playing Doom and Wolf3D, significantly less time playing Quake and Duke3D, and didn't play Q2 much at all.  Percentagewise, I played further into Blake Stone, ROTT, and maybe even Corridor 7 than Q2, which says to me I'm heading in an unsatisfying direction designwise, as I've been using more recent games as a design baseline.

The exception is Unreal, which I'm well on my way to finishing.  But although I dig the vaguely deathmatchish gameplay it has (at least when playing on Hard), it's still not as entertaining to me as taking down the hoards of monsters in a level like The O of Destruction.

So, I'm sitting here toying with all this, trying to decide what my ideal really is.  I like themes and plot a great deal, but prefer the gameplay that comes from adhering to neither.  Rather messy little intersection there, especially for a game with a pretty strong and cool plot like Heretic 2.  Have to try a few things...

Well, that was pointlessly long but writing stuff like this out can be helpful.  Off to work.

6/9/98

Since everybody else is busily griping away in their plan, I figured I may as well join in.  Then I hit an annoying snag.

Actually, nothing much has been eating at me recently... been looking for a ROM image of Vapor Trail for the Genesis, but otherwise everything's been cool.  Oh yeah, and Funcoland is overpriced.  Last time I ever buy anything there without checking Game Exchange first.  I also saw a backlit Gameboy for sale there that's just mocking me, trying to get me to buy it... vile thing... must resist...

6/8/98

With the Saturn being in the throes of death, and me always being greedy for cheap games, I couldn't resist buying a Saturn today.  Picked up seven games to go along with it, five of which were selling for $4 at Game Exchange.  Can't complain about that.  Spent enough in the proccess that I'll have to curb buying new PSX games until Thunder Force V shows up, though.  A shame, but those are the sacrifices us truly dedicated cheap bastards make...

I'll have to go on a crosstown trek this weekend for Saturn clearance titles and see what turns up.


6/6/98

Made my way through the first chapter of Breath of Fire 3, finally.  20:32 is how long it took me to work my way through what was essentially a prologue... scary.  Great game so far, either way.

Map work is going nicely.  Colorful textures are a good thing.

6/4/98

Starting to feel a lot better about my current maps.  They're shaping up and becoming at least viable to build, and there are some really cool textures in the directories I'm finding good homes for.  heh

On top of that, Scott McNutt, the new designer type on the preverbial block, gave me a small military jeep to go along with the 2' Godzilla figure... fits nicely in 'zillas right hand, and almost perfect scale.  Cool, definitely.

After being seriously tempted to tollow Nathan's lead and buy a Gameboy Pocket, I resisted in favor of ordering Lunar: Eternal Blue.  Now I just have to remember to make the phone call tomorrow.  Working Designs, you guys rock for bringing Thunder Force 5 to the states.  That's the E3 news that really excited me.  Thunder Force 3 was the game that got me to buy a Genesis way back when, and it's still the third best shooter ever, on my list.  TF5 looks like it might live up to 3, something the flawed import of TF4 (retitled Lightening Force) didn't.

Fun trivia stuff:  I'm thinking that Corridor 7 was the first FPS game to support multiplayer over a LAN... am I wrong?


6/2/98

Well, so much for two months of ramblings.  heh

Continue working on my H2 map... slow going but shaping up.  Still looking for a matchbox taxi to put in the giant Godzilla figures' mouth, but oh well...