Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Jeremy Statz
Email: jstatz@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 08/11/1998 00:55:30 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<------------------------------ 80 columns! ----------------------------------->
8/10/98

Recently a game was released called Nam.  It's a Build-engine based combat game
set in (of course) Vietnam, with a team apparently lead by the guy who did the
original Marine doom, and the Platoon mod for Duke.  Mike Gummelt bought a copy
of this on a whim a few days ago, and the first thing we did when he installed
it was mock its generally ugly graphics and how the gameplay was really pretty
similar to Duke.

This has changed.  After playing several coop games of Nam, most everybody here
has a very healthy respect for what these guys have accomplished: it's the
single most atmospheric war game I've ever seen, and as a player you're very,
very mortal.  The levels are almost all jungle-set, with enemy and friendly
encampments throughout.  They're huge and sprawling, with tremendous amounts of
sprite foliage scattered throughout -- enough of it that at times you can
barely see where you're going, leaving you screaming through the dense brush
firing wildly, hoping you'll get anything in your way before it kills you.

This is made cooler by the fact that enemy placement takes advantage of this,
placing mines in tall grass, and enemies in sniping posts hidden behind
foliage.  It's seriously involving playing these maps... there are times I've
rounded the corner to find dozens of enemy soldiers dug in and ready to kill
me.  Not only that, but they DO kill me, and very often.  The single-player
game is tremendously difficult, and this is a game much better played
cooperatively with several other players.  Preferably, you should all be in
the same room, so you can organize and make an effective squad.

The thing that really adds to it, though, is the sounds.  There are very
cool, loud, harsh sounds that're heavy on the bass, and sound authentic and
powerful.  On top of that, there are a lot of ambient chopper sounds,
explosions, gunfire, radio chatter, screams, artillary fire, etc that are all
heavily layered on top of each other.  The degree to which this makes you
feel like there's a war going on around you is amazing.  The total chaos so
many overlapping ambient sounds makes adds to the already pretty
disorienting, hectic feel.

Overall, my point here is that this is, in my mind at least, a very cool game
that's been getting terrible reviews only because of its fairly poor graphics
and outdated engine.  I can't really recommend it single player, but if
you've got a lan and a few friends to play a coop game with, Nam can't be
topped, especially for the $20 outlay.

Anybody working on an FPS should spend some time with this game -- and
congrats to the team who made it for putting together something so involving
on that I'm sure was a shoestring budget.

----------

Fox finally broke down!  The Abyss and Predator on DVD, among others, on
November 3!

8/9/98

Bosses... Hmm.  It's interesting that though I'm a huge fan of a good boss, none
have really stuck in my mind as being "the best."  Probably my current fave
would have to be the first level boss of Salamander 2, but a lot of that is
because of the cool entrance it makes.

A lot of the bosses in Einhander impressed me, and the crystalline creature at
the end of the second-to-last level in Lords of Thunder kicked ass.  That zero-G
power plant boss thing in Strider was cool.  R-Type had visually cool bosses,
but they didn't require you to do much of anything neat to kill them (a
requirement, in my mind, for a really good boss).

Gunstar Heroes had a lot of very good bosses.

FPS bosses in general kind of suck.  They're all of the "pound on me until I
die" variety without much of interest going on.  The exception to this was the
interesting situation with Eidolon at the end of Hexen 2, which I liked quite a
bit.  Not only was Eidolon a multistage boss (always cool) but you had to deal
with the chaos orb instead of him part of the time.  We'll be trying to match
that in Heretic 2, and have some ideas that should be very interesting.

8/4/98

Heretic 2's looking increasingly nice.  Busily retexturing
one of the maps to bring it up to speed with the cool textures the artist types
have cranked out.  Started a DM map last night, too... hopefully I'll have time
to finish it off.

That said, let me mention I bought EarthSiege 2 for $5 at Software Etc a couple
days ago.  Very good game for an insanely low price.

8/3/98

Just read the editorial on PlanetQuake about release dates, written by Tony
Fabris.  Check it out: http://www.planetquake.com/articles/deadline.shtm

I haven't been working in this industry for years or anything, but this seems
reasonably accurate to me.

8/1/98

Swiss Miss pudding snacks: good eating.

Thunder Force V's been delayed until 8/31!  Arggh, the pain!  I do believe this
is the first time I've used an exclamation point in my plan.  heh

Bought a 3DO a few days ago.  Now I just need a Neo Geo and my collection of
everything-but-Nintendo home systems will be complete, I believe.  I'm also
lacking an original-version TG-16, but do have a Duo... not sure if I want to
track down an original when I can still play the games.  Neo Geo CD systems are
fairly cheap after a bit of shopping, too.