Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jeremy Statz
Email: jstatz@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 12/02/1998 11:25:18 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<------------------------------ 80 columns! ----------------------------------->
12-2-98

I've put together a small demonstration/explanation of buoys and how to set them
up, that's well worth checking out for anyone interested in working on single-
player Heretic 2 maps.  It includes the map file, along with a text description
and BSP, so you can mess with it if you choose.

http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jstatz/buoyexample.zip

11-24-98

Saw Heretic 2 on the shelves of Software Etc while at lunch today.  Everybody go
pick up a copy!

11-21-98

Radiant Silvergun is amazing.  Any shooter fan owes it to themselves to go find
a Saturn, and go to any lengths to play this game.  The amount of creativity and
just flat-out good design displayed in this game is something you don't see very
often, and is an example of what can be done with a game when you ignore genre
conventions in favor of smart design decisions.

10-29-98

Brandon Reinhart Just wrote a long statement on a subject I feel really strongly
about -- design.  I don't mean level design, either.  Interesting as that is,
it's not nearly as interesting as overall design.  How the control works, what
the monsters act like, the things the player has to do as they progress through
the game, neat game quirks for the player to learn and exploit, different
minigames and objectives that keep the gameplay from stagnating... that's the
sort of thing I really love.

Unfortunately, it's also the thing that computer games tend to lack.  I see it
all the time in console games.  I play Metal Gear Solid, Salamander 2, the Lunar
games, Secret of Mana, Panzer Dragoon Zwei, the more recent Zelda games,
Symphony of the Night, Gunstar Heroes, and plenty others, and find myself
constantly being introduced to new gameplay aspects and experiences throughout.
New areas force me to make use of what my character can do in new and
interesting ways, I pick up items that let me do new moves, or I'm being placed
in an environment that simply behaves different than the ones I've been through
before.

On the other hand, I can't think of the last computer game I played that dared
do this to any significant degree.  I pick up an FPS and it's the same general
thing throughout.  Same with an RTS, RPG, or whatever.  The fact that the
characters rarely can do anything interesting doesn't help... It may be silly
that my character in Gunstar Heroes can throw enemy bombs back at them, but it's
a good gameplay element.  It doesn't make sense that the guys in Metal Gear
Solid can only see for a limited range, but without that it'd be unplayable. 
The double-jump my character in Symphony of the Night can do?  Irrelevant
whether it makes sense, it's cool.

Computer games lately just seem to be constantly striving to seem less like
games, and in the process it seems like they're pulling farther and farther
away from what's fun and interesting.  I don't care or notice that the
settings and characters in Metal Gear Solid aren't filtered, in high res, aren't
perspective-correct and don't have specular highlighting and bump-mapping.  I
don't care if it's first or third person, or uses models or sprites.  The game's
interesting enough that I'm not looking for reasons like that to use as a crutch
for liking it.  I'll take Life Force for the NES or Gunstar Heroes for the
Genesis over any computer game released in the last year or so, because it was
fun, and it doesn't seem like many computer games try to accomplish that
anymore.  They'd rather be "cool."  Shame's that's not really the point.

10-27-98

Something neat to try with the demo:

alias +freezelook "freezeworld 1; +lookaround;"
alias -freezelook "freezeworld 0; -lookaround;"

Then bind a key to +freezelook.  This is something Josh Weier first did... it
freezes the game world (all the effects, animations, etc) and frees the camera
so that it can move freely around the character at the same time.  Release the
button and all goes back to normal.  Really cool for taking screenshots, and
getting a good close look at the gore.

---

http://members.xoom.com/H_2/

Heretic 2 multiplayer stuff... pretty cool

10-26-98

Psycho Mantis just got added to my list of cool game bosses.  heh

Just wait'll you get your ass kicked by some of the Heretic 2 ones, though.

10-23-98

There's a Heretic 2 server list up at http://www.gameaholic.com/servers/heretic2
that you can check out if you're having any probs with Gamespy Lite.  It'd be
cool if any server admins would add their server to the list.

---

We've got Heretic 2 DM servers running at master.ravensoft.com and
equalizer.ravensoft.com.  Come contribute to the carnage!

10-19-98

Scored a 1240 on Gamespot's gaming knowledge quiz thing.  I feel so proud.

Sir Nate is the greatest teacher I ever had.

10-9-98  <-- I'm gonna be a rebel and format dates like this!

Since most of the people who ask me about making Heretic 2 levels or mods
haven't seen it mentioned anywhere, just thought I'd reassure everybody that
there will be a level editor included in the box (with documentation expertly
written by Jon Zuk, lead design guy for H2), along with various model/texture
utils and the source for both the client and server DLLs.  Anybody interested
in editing the game doesn't have anything to worry about.

10/5/98

Been working on the buoy placement in the Heretic 2 maps the last couple nights
(moonlighting from my current assignment on SoF)... the monsters can seriously
get around to anywhere on the map with a well-placed network of buoys, it's
really cool.  It's especially neat to type "angermonsters" at the console and
wait around for EVERY monster in the level to eventually show up and try to
kill you.  heheh

Just listened to some of Chia Chin's music for SoF, too.  Really cool stuff,
should kick ass once we've got some proper enemies and the like around for it
to respond to.

9/24/98

[time to rephrase this]

Anybody out there using QuakeEd or QERadiant: TNT boards do a pretty decent job
of running , and run the games really well to boot.  I'm noticing that the 2D
 window of QuakeEd isn't as quick as it was with the v2200, though (and 8 meg
v2200 cards can be had for like $65 if you shop around -- well worth it if you
do much level designing).  Still, nothing I could complain about.  Heretic 2 or
SoF in 1152x864 at 20-30 fps helps balance it out just a tad.  heh

I just tested it with glBSP, and it didn't seem to work real well...  Might
just be the beta driver I've got installed at the moment, though, as it was
fine for a little while.

9/18/98

A great boss: The fish thing at the end of level 4 of Panzer Dragoon Zwei.

9/12/98

Soldier of Fortune is coming aling swimmingly... cool stuff is continually
getting introduced and I'm thinking of ways to make use of it.  Realistic scale
and architecture is just cool.

Heretic 2's getting even cooler.  The last of the stupid little problems are
disappearing and a kick-ass game is showing up in their place.  Pat put in some
new gore/blood effects and stuff looks really nicely juicy when you cleave it in
half now.  Heheh...

9/8/98

Wow, almost two weeks since I updated last...

As far as Dune 2000 goes, I'm finding it pretty cool.  I didn't play the
original game a ton, so I'm not entirely sure what's changed or added.  If
anything's annoying me it's the semi-crummy C&C interface, which could
desperately use some command and build queuing (and smaller icons so I'm not
doing so much freakin' scrolling).  Still, not a bad game in my book.

8/27/98

Finished Unreal tonight.  It's the first computer game I've played all the way
through single player since Sam n Max Hit the Road a few years ago.  Pretty cool.

One of these days, I'm going to find a Primal rage Vertigo figure.

8/21/98

Event Horizon had awesome, awesome sets.  I liked how you could really tell what
the guy who built that ship had in mind: Safety first!

Many thanks to Brian Raffel for the giant Big Mike's Subs everybody in the
company enjoyed for lunch today.  Huzzah!

8/21/98

Tried to put together a button configuration for the Panther XL, but didn't have
any luck getting Windows control panel to recognize it.  Windows claims its not
connected -- It's plugged into the joystick port, I don't know what more I can
do.

At any rate, current configs (beyond KB and KB+mouse) include:

4 button gamepad -- Servicable, but kinda iffy.  Not enough buttons to allow
truly pad-only control.

6 button gamepad -- Not bad.  Had enough buttons that through double-tapping
and command switching you can control the game without touching the keyboard
pretty well and have a good time.

PC Powerpad Pro -- I've got one of these handy, and they're notable for having
an analog stick in addition to the digital.  This is the only pad I've seen that
lets you actually circle-strafe decently.  Other than that, it's six button, and
similar rules apply (though the config is different due to the shoulder
buttons).

The pad I used for the six-button is an Interact PC Gamepad 6, which uses a
125/346 two-row button layout.  It's also my personal favorite gamepad for games
like Jazz 2 and such.  No fancy features, sells for $12, and is just generally a
good, basic gamepad.

Now, since I've sort of taken it upon myself to do these configs, I'm curious
what kind of controllers I should bother supporting.  I'm planning on making a
Sidewinder gamepad config, along with a Panther XL and a Wingman Warrior
(assuming I can sort out the problems like I mentioned above).  Beyond that,
anybody have suggestions?  Also, just as clarification -- No, you're not forced
to use any of these setups, you can copy and paste your Quake config if you so
choose, just need to add a couple keys (action key, defensive spell key).

8/20/98

Okay, cool thing for today:

I've been making different configs for different control setups recently, so
that we don't ship with a generic "keyboard config" that people always have to
muck with.  I'd just put together what I felt was a pretty solid mouse+keyboard
configuration, and was testing it to see how it felt in-game.  I was playing
through one of the town maps, and since I'm cool basically blasted through it
using just the staff.

About 4/5 of the way through, I go through a locked door and am confronted by a
pair of plague elves.  One of them I behead in one swipe, and the other gets his
weapon knocked away with the first swing, and loses his arm to the second. 
Understandably, he decides this is a good time to retreat and runs away down the
hall and around the corner.

Now, normally, I run after these cowardly types and take them down pretty quick,
but this one I ignored because I wanted to see if I'd bound creeping properly.
So, I'm creeping around this doorway area, when all of a sudden I'm smacked
upside the head by a gas grenade!  I turn around, and see a plague spreader
advancing on me from the other end of the hallway -- apparently he'd been
alerted by the plague elf who came running past, and went looking for me from
his post later in the level.  Such a simple sort of thing, but that was really
neat.

8/16/98

Personally, I have "gl_texturemode gl_nearest" in my config.

Have a Heretic 2 DM map about a third to half done.  Seems like it'll be fairly
cool but can't really tell until I play it.  The single-player maps are all
pretty much done now... in-game cutscenes and some puzzle stuff needs doing
still, but the architecture and lighting's looking very nice.  The design of a
few of these should be surprising.

I tried to fight it off, but my brain insisted on making me buy Bust A Move 3
for the Saturn.  Great game.  Of course, any game with Bub and Bob in it can't
be all bad.

8/13/98

Just read Cliff Bleszinski's finger update, and what he says is true.  It's a
GAME, the point is to have fun.  Half the cool stuff the AI does do is never
noticed because people are too busy walking up to monsters and killing them toe
to toe.  The other half is ignored because one time in some odd situation
somebody saw it make a mistake, so they decide it sucks and that most of the
stuff it had been doing was an accident anyway.

Some of the Hexen 2 monsters have really, really cool AI.  They followed paths,
tracked down the player, dodged and weaved, tried to backstab you, and a bunch
of other stuff.  Nobody here really mentioned it, so nobody ever noticed.  Oh
well.

I'm to the point where I roll my eyes every time I read about how all the
monsters in a game should be bots that pick up items and grab health and 
circle-strafe around while efficiently killing the player.  Uh, no thanks. Give
me Doom or Heretic any day.

In other news, FINALLY got a copy of the Dark City DVD this morning.  Kickass
movie.  Great soundtrack, too.

I also started playing through Unreal again, this time on easy.  Amazing the
difference between easy and hard... on hard everything I saw put up a hell of a
fight, and I was constantly being pasted by it, on easy I'm walking through it
like nothing.  I'm also playing it on a PowerVR PCX2 (since my 3dfx isn't happy
with it at the moment, and the v2200 can't run it yet) at 1024x768x24.  Feels
like a fairly solid 15-20fps, pretty cool for a $40 card, really.  heh

8/11/98

Star Trek: First Contact and Face/Off on DVD October 6th... this is cool.  Now
if only Fox would announce Aliens director's cut.

The talk of boss battles got me fired up to start reworking one of our boss
levels... this fight should be pretty interesting.

8/10/98

Correction:

Apparently Platoon wasn't lead by the same person who made Marine Doom.  It was
by Team TNT (who were also involved with Nam), and wasn't connected to
Marines Doom.  Sorry about that...

I just can't get simple information right.  Ugh.

----------

Recently a game was released called Nam.  It's a Build-engine based combat game
set in (of course) Vietnam, with a team apparently lead by the guy who did the
original Marine doom, and the Platoon mod for Duke.  Mike Gummelt bought a copy
of this on a whim a few days ago, and the first thing we did when he installed
it was mock its generally ugly graphics and how the gameplay was really pretty
similar to Duke.

This has changed.  After playing several coop games of Nam, most everybody here
has a very healthy respect for what these guys have accomplished: it's the
single most atmospheric war game I've ever seen, and as a player you're very,
very mortal.  The levels are almost all jungle-set, with enemy and friendly
encampments throughout.  They're huge and sprawling, with tremendous amounts of
sprite foliage scattered throughout -- enough of it that at times you can
barely see where you're going, leaving you screaming through the dense brush
firing wildly, hoping you'll get anything in your way before it kills you.

This is made cooler by the fact that enemy placement takes advantage of this,
placing mines in tall grass, and enemies in sniping posts hidden behind
foliage.  It's seriously involving playing these maps... there are times I've
rounded the corner to find dozens of enemy soldiers dug in and ready to kill
me.  Not only that, but they DO kill me, and very often.  The single-player
game is tremendously difficult, and this is a game much better played
cooperatively with several other players.  Preferably, you should all be in
the same room, so you can organize and make an effective squad.

The thing that really adds to it, though, is the sounds.  There are very
cool, loud, harsh sounds that're heavy on the bass, and sound authentic and
powerful.  On top of that, there are a lot of ambient chopper sounds,
explosions, gunfire, radio chatter, screams, artillary fire, etc that are all
heavily layered on top of each other.  The degree to which this makes you
feel like there's a war going on around you is amazing.  The total chaos so
many overlapping ambient sounds makes adds to the already pretty
disorienting, hectic feel.

Overall, my point here is that this is, in my mind at least, a very cool game
that's been getting terrible reviews only because of its fairly poor graphics
and outdated engine.  I can't really recommend it single player, but if
you've got a lan and a few friends to play a coop game with, Nam can't be
topped, especially for the $20 outlay.

Anybody working on an FPS should spend some time with this game -- and
congrats to the team who made it for putting together something so involving
on that I'm sure was a shoestring budget.

----------

Fox finally broke down!  The Abyss and Predator on DVD, among others, on
November 3!

8/9/98

Bosses... Hmm.  It's interesting that though I'm a huge fan of a good boss, none
have really stuck in my mind as being "the best."  Probably my current fave
would have to be the first level boss of Salamander 2, but a lot of that is
because of the cool entrance it makes.

A lot of the bosses in Einhander impressed me, and the crystalline creature at
the end of the second-to-last level in Lords of Thunder kicked ass.  That zero-G
power plant boss thing in Strider was cool.  R-Type had visually cool bosses,
but they didn't require you to do much of anything neat to kill them (a
requirement, in my mind, for a really good boss).

Gunstar Heroes had a lot of very good bosses.

FPS bosses in general kind of suck.  They're all of the "pound on me until I
die" variety without much of interest going on.  The exception to this was the
interesting situation with Eidolon at the end of Hexen 2, which I liked quite a
bit.  Not only was Eidolon a multistage boss (always cool) but you had to deal
with the chaos orb instead of him part of the time.  We'll be trying to match
that in Heretic 2, and have some ideas that should be very interesting.

8/4/98

Heretic 2's looking increasingly nice.  Busily retexturing
one of the maps to bring it up to speed with the cool textures the artist types
have cranked out.  Started a DM map last night, too... hopefully I'll have time
to finish it off.

That said, let me mention I bought EarthSiege 2 for $5 at Software Etc a couple
days ago.  Very good game for an insanely low price.

8/3/98

Just read the editorial on PlanetQuake about release dates, written by Tony
Fabris.  Check it out: http://www.planetquake.com/articles/deadline.shtm

I haven't been working in this industry for years or anything, but this seems
reasonably accurate to me.

8/1/98

Swiss Miss pudding snacks: good eating.

Thunder Force V's been delayed until 8/31!  Arggh, the pain!  I do believe this
is the first time I've used an exclamation point in my plan.  heh

Bought a 3DO a few days ago.  Now I just need a Neo Geo and my collection of
everything-but-Nintendo home systems will be complete, I believe.  I'm also
lacking an original-version TG-16, but do have a Duo... not sure if I want to
track down an original when I can still play the games.  Neo Geo CD systems are
fairly cheap after a bit of shopping, too.