Name: Jeremy Statz
Email: jstatz@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: Star Trek
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<------------------------------ 80 columns! ----------------------------------->
5-12-99

The Empire can never truly be defeated.

5-4-99

Both SoF and Trek are looking really, really cool.  Should be interesting to see the E3 reaction... Some of what they're doing may catch people off-guard.

Over in my corner of the world, levels are coming along pretty cool, though much more than that I can't say.  Been playing EverQuest, Heroes of Might and Magic 3, and a few NES and Genesis games recently (Ah, Thunder Force III, my good friend...) along with a few other things to burn any spare time.

3-8-99

Um, moo.

Working on some stuff for Voyager... alien architecture is neat.

2-7-99

Dynamite Headdy: cool

1-25-99

Built some cool stuff for SoF over the last few days.  Got a copy of Secret of
Mana and have been playing through it again... great game.  Want to play through
Lunar 2 next (PSX Lunar: Complete is coming out pretty soon now).

Anyone who's a fan of game music, and has a decent wavetable card, should check
out this site:  http://www-personal.umich.edu/~tdkim/midi/

1-18-99

Finished Panzer Dragoon Saga, finally... fantastic game.  Odd ending, but the
final boss battle was very cool.  Now can someone explain to me that Dermot's
Ranch game?

Cult Crowd Control's site has moved to http://crowdpleazr.ravenarchives.com now,
so check it out.  They've got some good tutorials and examples on making H2 art,
maps, mods, etc, in addition to having cool mods like King of the Hill and Sieze
the Stronghold available.

Thought for today: Art is not usually the same as technology.

1-12-99

Been playing Tribes a perverse amount the last few days.  Don't dig the DM or
CTF a whole lot so far, but the Defend & Destroy and Capture & Hold modes rock.
Playing in a group of three or four, shouting objectives and plans and stuff
between members, is really cool.

Gotta wonder what they were thinking with those elevators, though.

1-9-99

Thought for today: Destroying a crate is not interactivity.


"D'oh!  They're not nipples, they're buttons!" -- Josh Weier, 0:32, 1-8-99

1-5-99

Kenn softened up the block of ice before I chipped it away with my keys on
sunday.  Was quite proud of the trench I dug through the snow to get out of the
building on saturday, too.  heh

Thanks for people's recommendations on modelling programs... pretty much the
only one people mentioned was Moonlight Creator, a very full-featured
modelling/rendering package for Linux and Windows.  Anyone who's interested can
check out http://rpmfind.net/linux/moonlight/ for info.  The official homepage
is at http://www.cybersociety.com/moonlight but it seems to be down.

Been scripting some nice destruction for SoF... nothing beats a good explosion.

1-3-99

Just noticed that Rust has a Heretic 2 editing forum up.  Check it out!

<a href="http://www.gamedesign.net">Rust</a>
http://www.gamedesign.net

1-2-99

There's a six-foot snow drift stacked against the front door.  That rules.

Was just checking out Pricewatch, and found a bunch of places selling i740 cards
for around $35.  Pretty decent speed for the money if you haven't got a 3D card
yet.

12-31-98

Anybody out there who wants to read the HereticEd manual/tutorial that came with
the game, but doesn't have Word97 or Acrobat available, can get a Word97 viewer
from Microsoft's site.  It's around 3 meg, and works nicely for this purpose.

URL:  http://officeupdate.microsoft.com/downloaditems/wd97vwr32.exe

If you're experimenting with your config and are kind of frustrated with
the double-tap system, keep in mind that the game also supports command-
shifting.  Bind a key to +command to make it the shifter, then bind_command a
key to a function.  So, if I have ALT bound to +command, then "bind_command X
+defend", I can defend by hitting ALT + X.  You can look at the gamepad configs
that're included with the game to see this in action, as it's used throughout
them. (they're in the heretic2/base/config directory)

Also built about 2/3 of a Heretic 2 DM map over vacation.  I learned in the
process that 800x600 isn't a real great resolution for level editing.  Even so,
was a productive holiday between games and the map.  heh

I can now get as far as the third level of Radiant Silvergun without a death, if
I'm lucky... that wireframe boss towards the end of the second level screws me
over frequently, though.  I'm an hour or two away from finishing both Breath of
Fire 3 and Panzer Dragoon Saga.  Have to finish Magic Knight Rayearth after
that, then start into Suikoden.

Oh also, is anybody aware of a free modelling program with source available, for
either DOS or Windows?  Doesn't need to do anything real complex, I'm mostly
interested in something bare-bones that I could build onto.

12-22-98

Best game I played this year is definitely Radiant Silvergun.  Nothing seriously
comes close.  Panzer Dragoon Saga, StarCraft, and Metal Gear Solid kick some
ass, too.

12-18-98

Quick mention regarding the DM map pack.  The first zip we sent to the
webmasters was missing a file, which was corrected a few minutes later.  The
original one was up for a couple minutes on some of the sites, though, so if you
grabbed it right as the link shows up, you might be missing one of the BSPs.  If
the zip you got isn't 1.74 meg, or you're otherwise missing DMBloodFeud, you're
missing a cool map!

Was purely an accident, and wasn't up for too long, but thought I'm mention it
in case you see the map on a server and aren't sure where to get it.

12-16-98

I felt like updating this because Oz was watching me.  And he is a psycho.

12-15-98

Not sure if any of the more general news pages noticed this...

There's an update zip of Heretic 2's dev toolkit available now that adds a few
missing things and fixes the path weirdness with the QE4 project file.  It also
includes a bunch of example qdt files.

http://www.hereticii.com/misc/h2tools_update12-10.zip

Oh yeah, and there's a shot of one of the enhancement pack maps up on
www.heretic2.com if you want a look.

12-10-98

Anybody trying to get the "random DM start" flag on a teleporter to work should
know that you still need to target the teleporter at a destination.  The 
destination will get used in single-player, and it'll do the random thing in DM
games.

12-6-98

Also, a quick reminder that if you want to name your Heretic 2 map, or have a
trigger or whatever print a message, you have to use the text_msg field.
Message simply prints a line from the levelmsg.txt file (used because it's easy
to translate).

It works the same as Quake 2's message field, just a different name is all.

-----

Anyone working on a Heretic 2 map who wants to use scripts may have noticed the
lack of a script_runner entity in the list.  Unfortunately, the included
Heretic 2 project file is told to look for *.c files, while the comment for the
script_runner is in a .cpp file (the only one in the directory).

So, find your heretic2.qe4 file (should be in toolkit/designer/hereticed), open
it in notepad, and change the line where it says:

"entitypath"            "....programminggamecodegame*.c"

to read:

"entitypath"            "....programminggamecodegame*.c*"

The added wildcard will make it scan that file, so script_runner will show up
in your entity list.  Apparently a number of the ent lists for other editors
are missing this entity too (probably for a similar reason), so if you
maintain one of these lists, please take a look and make sure you didn't miss
it -- scripts are central to doing a lot of the more complex stuff with a
single-player map.