[ionstorm.com]

Ion Storm

User Name.........drsleep
Full Name.........John W. Anderson
Description.......Level Designer
Last NT Logon.....Sunday, May 11, 1997 at 14:32



 

Extracts from the Sleep Notebooks:			

4:24 PM 5/11/97
---------------						

Well, it's a beautiful Sunday afternoon, and I'm stuck at work trying to make
something that looks convincingly like ropes. The first level is essentially
finished except for some cool extra details, which will be added this week.

Tom Hall is here showing everyone a home-made video of his new house, which is
extremely nice and situated a few blocks from John Romero's house. I must say
that the camera work is exceptional: it's one long tracking shot that rivals
Carpenter's opening HALLOWEEN sequence. 

If anyone knows how I can get a copy of EDGE magazine, which is published in
Britain, let me know. A friend of mine in Scotland wrote to say he saw the
Daikatana team's picture in it, along with a story on the game. 

 
 
7:46 PM 5/8/97
--------------						

Our alpha is finally running on all four threads. The level I'm working on which
used to take almost four hours to vis on a PPro200 with 128MB, now takes only
13 minutes. :) 
 
3:40 PM 5/3/97
--------------						

Been busy lately with the move and all, not to mention getting two levels ready
for E3 in June. Our Alpha should be up soon, so vising a level should take 3
minutes instead of the 3 hours at which I'm currently stuck. 

The new building is terrific, though I'm not sure the older residents are used
to us yet. In fact, even the maintenance staff sniff at us. Maybe it's just my 
imagination. 
 
6:07 PM 4/17/97
---------------						

The first Daikatana deathmatch was played today, using dog-launchers. 
 
11:48 AM 4/14/97
----------------						

Working with new textures provided by the artists. Since John has already spilled
the beans, I guess it's safe to say that we're going to have some levels ready for
E3. 

On another note, Sverre is finally here, making the Daikatana design team complete.
He and I checked out Wes Craven's SCREAM on Saturday (terrific film), and on the
drive up I managed to catch myself on fire when the ember from my cigarette fell
down my shirt. Smoking is hazardous to your health.

Matt "DaBug" Hooper (also known as the Boo Radley of Level Design) is ready to mend
his ascetic ways and put out a .plan file. I think the description of him as "some
kinda roachy bug looking thing" on the Eye on Ion page hurt his feelings a little.
 
5:36 PM 4/2/97
--------------						

Happy birthday, Shakyamuni.

Will finished the first song for Daikatana (and my level) on this date. I can't get 
the tune out of my head, and the intro just gives you the chills. Great stuff.
 
5:31 PM 4/1/97
--------------						

I've just heard a snatch of Will's music for my first level. It is, as they say,
totally, totally awesome, I wish I sat closer to his area so I could hear this tune
over and over as he works on it. Gorgeous and exciting adventure music.

I've got a great start on my level, using a few textures whipped up in Texture 
Creator (thanks Walla!). Kee's lighting tricks are going to give Daikatana a very 
different look from Quake. I mean, a bunch of us were just standing here running 
through my level, dazzled at just how unQuakelike it truly looks.

I was stunned to hear of the attempt on Tom's life. Personally, I walk the non-
violent path of Gandhi, and I live by the credo "Never strike out in anger -- unless 
you're absolutely sure you can get away with it." Still, Tom has been a warm and 
fuzzy source of inspiration for all of us here at ION. I know many folks here who 
would pull their own heads off rather than see anything happen to Tom. 


3:39 PM 3/31/97
---------------						

Just got an e-mail from Sverre Kvernmo, who'll be coming in fresh from Xatrix on 
April 4th to complete the Daikatana level design team. Apparently, the American 
embassy in Norway made him wait a month before they'd stick a stamp on his visa.

Finally met most of the rest of the Hipnotic crew Friday night (Jim Dose, Paradox, 
Giggler, et al.) Tom and Mike and I exchanged Epic stories, then we went through the 
Rogue pak and counted misaligned textures and other anomalies. (Just kidding.)

(Not really.) 
 
2:22 PM 3/28/97
---------------						

Matt and I conferenced with Jerry and some of the artists the other day to work out a 
preliminary set of textures. We're hoping to have a few to use sometime next week. 
Kee and Nelno have some way cool stuff cooked up, programming wise. In short, work on 
the first few levels for Daikatana should begin in earnest on Monday. 
 
4:36 PM 3/24/97
---------------						
 
"There is only one thing worse than being talked about, and that is NOT being talked 
about."							
                                               --Oscar Wilde
 

10:33 AM 3/20/97
----------------					

Our new level designer (for Tom's Anachronox) should be arriving soon. For a hint of 
his talents, download Fane of the Diabolist.

Finally got to meet Mark Dochtermann (thanks for the Scourge box!) the other day. I'm 
still looking forward to meeting the rest of the Hipnotic crew. While I'm at it, I 
should mention just how terrific the Scourge pack is (though I'm sure you've all 
heard this already from anyone who's looked at it). Seriously (and I'm not just 
saying this because of the warm and fuzzy relationship we have with Hipnotic), the 
levels are marvels of modern engineering. I particularly like The Lost Mines. The 
weapons are swell, and the Gremlins are wonderful. Scourge really makes single-player 
Quake a joy.

 

4:22 PM 3/14/97
---------------						

Just got back from RETURN of the JEDI. The little additions still don't make this one 
add up for me (EMPIRE is my favorite). Melodrama instead of drama, too many damn 
Ewoks, Anakin Skywalker still looks like Humpty Dumpty when his mask is removed.

Anyway, as John mentioned in his .plan, the Daikatana design doc is huge. Weapons are 
finished, as are most of the artifacts (power ups, armor, etc). Quite a few surprises 
for folks, I should think. 

A few folks wrote me to ask about the relevance of the Maugham quotation. Its 
pertinence is to myself, and means only that I intend to compose my .plans in 
Standard English. 
 
6:22 PM 3/11/97
---------------							

The Cleaner is in the house (thank goodness for another smoker), being the latest 
addition to the design team on Tom's game. This place is getting crowded! You can't 
swing a mouse without hitting three or four artists now.

Brainstorming today for weapons. Wow. Wish I could say what some of them are. Rest 
assured, they're all groovy (so far). 

The police have persuaded me that an APB on my underwear would yield few useful leads 
on the social deviants who broke into my car. 

My ISDN is ripping! 128kps is working. I'm very pleased, and the ISPs down here in 
the Dallas area are charging only $50 for unlimited access. 


 
6:20 PM 03/10/97
----------------						

"It is very easy to persuade oneself that a phrase that one does not quite understand 
may mean a great deal more than one realizes. From this there is only a little way to 
go to fall into the habit of setting down one's impressions in all their original 
vagueness. Fools can always be found to discover a hidden sense in them."
					-- W. Somerset Maugham
 
2:10 PM 03/10/97
----------------

Erraunt Ydyls:
Had my car broken into yesterday while parked in the local grocery store parking lot. 
Wasn't gone five minutes and come out to discover the passenger-side window smashed 
in, my portable CD missing, along with a bag of dirty laundry containing mostly 
underwear and a couple pair of jeans. They'll make a Republican out of me yet (now 
that I'm a liberal who's been mugged). It's a sad commentary on the state of this 
country when a man's underwear isn't even safe. In the meantime, if you see anyone 
wearing Polo bikinis (non-mesh) with the days of the week written on the back of the 
inside band, let me know.
 
5:20 PM 03/06/97
----------------
 
Polish and Monolith stopped by for a quick deathmatch showdown with John. I 
understand the Hipnotic bunch will be by later as well for a three-on-three match. 
DaBug just crushed me 20-1 in a single-player match (the sun was in my eye). Deus, 
will all this work never end!?

Kee just lost two hours work when a Microsoft app crashed. We're still trying to talk 
him off the ledge of the sixth floor here.

My ISDN was installed today, but I haven't had a chance to play with it yet. :(

 
11:55 AM 03/05/97
-----------------						

More brainstorming last night. Just as I was running out of ideas, good fortune was 
kind enough to intercede in the form of a challenge to John from Shadow. At any rate, 
I think the scenario for each of the levels is pretty much complete at this point. 
Many details will change later, I'm sure, but the locations are solid and now make 
much more sense.
 
Erraunt Ydyls:						
I've spent several nights in my new house now, and for a while I had been hearing 
some strange noises coming from the attic. I've had some experience with this sort of 
thing in the past -- ghostly goings-ons, that is -- and I must admit that I was a tad 
disappointed to discover that the various squeaks and moans were just the side 
effects of a not-often-used heating system kicking in. Having a haunted house could 
have made for some lively morning discussions at ION. I mean, who hasn't at some time 
in the middle of the night felt the cold, chilling hand of the dead on their 
shoulder? (Not me, thank god, but some have.) To make matters worse, some local do-
gooders perched themselves on my doorstep this morning to foist copies of The 
Watchtower on me. I had to decline their invitation to become a Jehovah's Witness, as 
I hadn't seen the accident.
 
2:00 PM 03/04/97						
----------------

Noel is putting the finishing touches on Kill Creek's shrine; DaBug is making QuakeEd 
easier to live with; The ION Storm Roving Reporter is going to be nailing Kee, 
WhaleBoy, and my humble self sometime this afternoon for something new coming up on 
Pseudo Online; I'm still twiddling with a little level I've been playing around with 
here, trying to dream up new texture ideas on the fly.

On a personal note, I'm finally getting ISDN installed at my house this Thursday. I 
haven't played a single game of Quake on the Net since I got down to Dallas, and I'm 
getting a little itchy. ('Course, when we get our T3 at ION, I'll be able to exact 
revenge on a few folks who used to dance circles around me and my 300 ping.)

Also, I'm trying to talk Kornelia (of Clan 311) into coming over from LA and playing 
John a deathmatch. :)
 
10:41 AM 3/03/97						
----------------

The past week and a half consisted of brainstorming sessions, and we've basically got 
the entire scenario for each of the levels in at least three episodes. Matt's episode 
was the most fun as far as  extemporization goes; my episode required a little more 
effort to concoct (one must needs avoid being derivative); and John's episode has the 
best-named creatures, not to mention some ultra-cool and (we hope) hilarious 
situations.

Single-player fans should be VERY happy.




(File last updated on Sun 11 May 1997 at 16:32)