
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: drsleep
Plan modified: Thu Apr 16 18:19:22 1998





What I'm Doing Lately


Extracts from the Sleep Notebooks: 
What I've been reading.
06:15 PM 04/16/98
What I've Been Doing:
1) Working on stuff for E3.
2) Selling Sverre's DOOM II figurines on
eBay. 
3) Changing the name of Daikatana
to Buckets of Blood Pouring Out of People's Heads so that stupid people
won't feel left out.
(Actually, many folks in the game industry
and those who buy their games are smart people and avid readers, especially of Science
Fiction and Fantasy. I'm sure those familiar with Larry Niven's tales of Known Space can
appreciate a cool title like Storm Over Gift 3.)
What I'm Reading: The Forgotten
Beasts of Eld by Patricia McKillip
03:15 PM 01/07/98
Well, the WIRED photographers were here to
work their magic with myself, Sverre, and Mr Romero. As His Levelness has already
mentioned, WIRED will be running a feature article on the DOOM Babies who made good in the
industry: Sverre, myself, Levelord, Paradox and Tim Willits. The article was written by
David McCandless of PC ZONE and should be in the March issue. 
I want to send congratulations out to my Clan
311 clanmates. We featured prominently in the Quake Women's Forum 1997 Year in
Review poll: Most Famous Clan: Clan 311, 3rd place; Best Clan Skin: Clan 311,
2nd place; and Best LPB of 1997: Kornelia, 2nd place. Yay! Congrats to all who placed (and
to those who didn't, for that matter).
Still working on Minos' palace.
What I'm Reading: The Orchid Eater
by Marc Laidlaw. 
12:42 AM 12/04/97
Work continues on Minos' palace. This is
going to be one of the larger levels. 
Not That Anyone Cares notes:
Run, don't walk, to your nearest bookseller
and get Glenn Kleier's The Last Day, which is easily the best book I've read this year. Thoughtful, prosaic, and
insightful, Kleier spins a tale of millenium fever and second comings with the
authoritative voice found only in a handful of first-time novelists over the past several
years. I was literally up until dawn reading all 484 pages of this exciting and
provocative book -- and my only regret was that the story didn't go on for another 500
pages. 
I found The Last Day to be thoroughly
believable, without a single false note. The action is swift and at times almost
unbearable in its suspense. Couple this with profound insights into human character, and
you have not just your typical action-suspense thriller, but a very deep and moving
examination of our society at the end of the 20th century. 
What I'm Reading: Jack Faust by Michael
Swanwick.
6:42 PM 11/24/97
Back to finishing up King Minos' palace.
Voin has produced some beautiful statues which Chuck is skinning with exquisite attention
to detail. I can't wait to put some of them in the levels.
Congratulations to Steve Rescoe, fellow
Daikatana designer, for having the number one Quake level ever at MeccaWorld, Shadow
Over Innsmouth. Anyone who likes H. P. Lovecraft can't be all bad.
Found a couple of cool new QuakeWorld
servers with nice pings: Ice Virus' Digital
Carnage runs DM4, Arena, and Hipnotic deathmatch. Check them out at
207.176.51.52:27500 (27501 and 27502 respectively).
What I'm reading: The Reality
Dysfunction by Peter F. Hamilton.
6:00 PM 11/11/97
Wow. I've received about 20 e-mails already
recommending books. Many thanks, and sure, keep them coming. Almost all have recommended
Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series -- so I'll go ahead and let
you all know that I've read (and love) them all up to Fires of Heaven.
I've got the other three, but haven't gotten around to them yet.
I started The Labyrinth (level 7). Chuck
has been working on a special individual theme-set for this level, and so far the results
have been something other than else.
What I'm reading: Forever Peace
by Joe Haldeman.
6:10 PM 11/10/97
Not That Anyone Cares Notes:
I actually had a couple of e-mails from
folks admonishing me for not liking Starship Troopers enough. Wow. I
thought I was this film's biggest defender. (I did say it was a "great
film," I believe.) Except for some logic problems, I thought the story was extremely
well done, and I loved its satiric bite. I give it an A-.
Another e-mail asked if I really read or
finish the books I say I'm reading. Hmmpf. Yes, I do. I suppose some folks find it
improbable that a 300 page novel can be read in three or four days. I usually get through
two or three books a week; not because I'm a genius, but because I like to read. I don't
watch television, except for the X-Files and sometimes The
Simpsons, so my leisure time is spent with books. I'm not dissing anyone who
watches a lot of television -- I just prefer books. I like Science Fiction and Fantasy,
Mainstream, Horror, and non-fiction on astronomy, cosmology, quantum mechanics, and
paleontology. I'm usually in the middle of a couple of books at a time, but this is a bad
habit I seem unable to break.  I've had many enjoyable discussions with folks who've
written and said "Hey,  I read that book... blah blah" or "Hmm. Never
heard of that, though I like the author. Any good?" So I'll continue to list what I'm
reading when I think about it. I wish I got more e-mail about books, since I'm always
looking for a cool new author.
Thanks for your e-mails. Now back to actual
work.
1:40 PM 11/10/97
Many thanks for the birthday wishes from my
friends in the gaming community. I've gotten sentimental in my dotage, and these things
mean a lot (two words, by the way) to me. <sniff>
What I'm reading: The Prestige
by Christopher Priest
5:00 PM 11/07/97
Starship Troopers is a
great film. Besides having the best special effects I've ever seen, the perspective is a
brilliant turnabout on Heinlein's vision of a society whose members must serve two years
active service in order to become citizens (only citizens can vote). Verhoeven shows that
society as a fascist state, which is exactly what we would have had if Heinlein's vision
had come to fruition. Anyway, nevermind the deep stuff. I agree with others that the
acting was only fair, charactization thin, and motivation poorly explained. So what? It's
a bug movie. It's not better than Aliens or as intelligent as Contact:
but it's the best action/sci-fi film of the year.
Game wise, King Minos's Palace is turning
out wonderfully, thanks to Chuck's textures. I've had some nice comments on the screen
shots of Athens and the Acropolis (even though the shots are old), though one complaint
I've heard (and share myself) is that the levels are awfully white. It has been my
intention for a long time to get some color into the place. We're used to seeing the Greek
temples in their denuded, ruin states: mostly white marble and stone. Naturally, over the
course of a couple thousand years, any paint remnants are long gone, except for scraps
here and there. But it is well known that the Greeks accented their temples with bright
colors, particularly the pediment and entablature. So for the Acropolis, I've been working
with photographs and maps to get the buildings and topography down pretty much to scale.
Of course, I have to take some liberties here and there, since I'm obliged to keep the
face count and Quake's draworder in mind. There's also the matter of gameplay
to consider. Sure, you might think any goof with a map editor and some architecture books
can sit down and recreate the Acropolis perfectly. My goal is to recreate Ancient Greece convincingly
-- while at the same time balancing practicality (the Quake engine's limitations), game
flow, strategy, and fun.
Why all the bother with historical
accuracy? Well, as Eric Idle has said, "It's just as easy to get these things
right." Besides that, it's fun! 
Happy birthday to me, too. Today I'm ...
well ... I bought Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band the day it
came out with money from my paper route. That's vague enough.
What I'm reading: Timequake
by Kurt Vonnegut.
12:30 AM 10/17/97
Finished The Parthenon, started King Minos'
palace. Only two more levels to go after this.
What I'm reading: How the Mind
Works by Steven Pinker.
8:34 PM 10/11/97
Since Shawn added some really swell
lighting effects that we requested a couple months back, I've been finding incredibly
subtle ways to light levels and achieve a realistic mix of shadow and ambience. I thought
I was really hot shit with this until Sverre showed me a little trick he's been using in
his San Francisco levels. The effect has made all the difference in Medusa's lair, which
was giving me mood fits. Either the shadows were too dark, loosing a lot of the little
detail bits -- or it was too light, which wasn't creepy enough. Now it's exactly what I
wanted.
5:28 PM 10/07/97
Our new texture dude, Chuck Crist, is
amazing. He's a real pixel-artist, and has consistently stunned me with new stuff every
day. Forget everything you've seen before in the Greek levels. Oh, the architecture will
have few changes, but Chuck's work is every level designer's dream. A really good set of
textures can inspire level design in ways too myriad to explain. Some of you know what I'm
talking about.
ps: There's no shame in therapy.
What I'm reading: Underworld by Don
DeLillo.
2:15 PM 9/23/97
Started the fifth level, The Parthenon.
This is going to be one of the really cool and tough levels, featuring two bosses. This is
the first level where I can take some extreme liberties with the architecture, since it
takes place totally underground, and will feature Medusa's lair. Been looking forward to
this one.
What I'm reading: Excession by Iain
M. Banks.
12:04 PM 9/18/97
Back from ECTS, which went extremely well
for Daikatana. The press and gaming community were very receptive. Of course, the British
press have been very generous to Daikatana all along. Hey, I even got interviewed by The
Independent, one of London's biggest newspapers.
Being in London during Princess Diana's
funeral was something other than else. I've written a photo-feature on my observations of
Britain's farewell to Diana for Ion Storm's Daily Informant, if anyone cares to
read it:
http://www.ionstorm.com/eos/Di/diana.html

As for actual gaming stuff, I'm still
working on the Acropolis. The Parthenon is going to be tough to create realistically,
since it's so huge. Sverre keeps reminding me not to fall into the trap of keeping things
TOO realistic.
What I'm Reading: Saint Leibowitz and
the Wild Horse Woman by Walter M. Miller, Jr.
9:31 PM 9/3/97
I've been so busy getting ready for ECTS
that I forgot to give my 311 Clan mate Kornelia a big congratulations for winning the AFT!
A big, belated "Way to go, Kornelia!" 
xxx
2:17 PM 9/2/97
The Levelord does me great honor, but he is
too modest. I'm sure that any level he does will knock them dead at ECTS. I'm certainly
looking forward to the show in London, but it looks as though we'll spend a somber
Saturday due to Princess Diana's funeral entourage. Very tragic. A truly wonderful Lady. 
6:01 PM 8/30/97
Getting Athens ready for ECTS. Reading: How
to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie.
6:41 PM 8/27/97
From The Dictionary of Cultural Literacy,
2nd Edition Revised and Updated, p. 415: coolie -- an unskilled laborer or porter
in eastern Asia. Coolie is a degrading term for any laborer. [Emphasis mine.] 
From Wicked Words: A Treasury of Curses,
Insults, Put-Downs, and Other Formerly Unprintable Terms from Anglo-Saxon Times to the
Present by Hugh Rawson, p. 94: coolie -- An Asian or Indian, especially one of
the lower classes. "In South Africa the word "coolie" is used by some
whites to describe Asians, and is bitterly resented them as the word "Kaffir" is
resented by Africans" (Guardian, 10/4/67). See also DRUDGE, KAFFIR, and SLAVE.

1:50 PM 8/25/97
<font color="#FFFFFF" size="2" f