Ion Storm

User Name.........jwand
Full Name.........Jeff Wand
Description.......Artist
Last NT Logon.....Friday, November 07, 1997 at 04:36

jwand@ionstorm.com

Jefferson H. Wand

Jeff

"Mad Somoan"







WARNING! WARNING WILL ROBINSON! The following statements are my own and odds are even that they don't reflect ION Storm's opinions. Also, this is the .plan of an artist employed at ION Storm. You have been warned.


11-19-97

If anyone knows of a good 2d/Photoshop artist that's really good with medieval themes, could you send them my way or e-mail me? It would require moving to Dallas too. I only want to see 2d samples of drawings or 2d computer work.

11-17-97

Well, this Friday is my last day here. Sniff, sniff. I'm leaving to pursue a career in the WWF as "The Mad Somoan". Just kidding. I'm really moving to the closest thing I've ever had to a hometown, Austin, to join Warren Spector's ex-Looking Glass team and an opportunity to get in on the ground floor of new game. 

I've been here for nine months and indeed it has been a wild ride. I was the second artist to arrive through the doors of ION. At the time, I was entertaining thoughts of heading to the west coast, which I was reluctant to do because I wasn't raised in a dysfunctional environment and am actually rather fond of my family. So I made the decision to make the short trek from Austin to Dallas rather than head to "Hollyweird". 

I had never seen so many people as passionate about their games until I came here. There is such an overwhelming atmosphere of competition whether it be flag football, foosball, Quake, Age of Empires, Doom, Tekken3, or Omega Race (Omega Race?!) I think it will come across in our games.

I think I can safely say that I modelled about %80 perecent of the character models without being pelted by my fellow artists and am really proud of how they came out with minimal pounding by Brian and Jerry. I put a lot of myself into these models and I really hope they knock the socks off people. Even more amazing, I'm walking away from them, pretty confident that what I saved off of as a final object will survive the tweaking process to lunge at me when I play Daikatana for the first time. I have complete faith in the folks that are breathing life into them as we speak and that is so, so rare. Ken, Ron, and Murphy have their work cut out for them.

I want to thank the Daikatana team

-John Romero for creating the most badass sandbox to play in.
-Jerry O' Flaherty for taking the chance on me.
-Bryan Pritchard for understanding you can take the Mad Somoan out of Austin, but you can't take the Austin out of the Mad Somoan
-Mike Wilson for actually hearing me out on a few of my weird ideas
-Andy and Andy for Andyland
-Dabug, Sverre, Rescoe and Dr. Sleep for surpassing my expectations
-Ron for being my Age of Empires buddy
-Murphy for being the cynical Mormon nubian-lovin' guy that he is
-Chuck for wising up and finally leaving the "lame-O"
-Jim for reminding me that I'm a frustrated comic artist
-Ken for reminding me that I'm a frustrated painter
-Kee for never throwing anything at me
-Shawn for telling it like it is
-Will Loconto for letting me meet a rockstar! Really, I loved Information Society!
-Nelno the Amoeba for gifting us with his protoplasm
-Voin for inventing Tetris
-Rooster for not pointing out the child labor law violations
-Russell and Clay for joining the Austin train

As much as I loved being on this team, Dallas is just not my cup of tea and one thing my life as a military-brat pointed out, "You don't have to live where you don't want to". So as much as I enjoy working with Romero and crew, going back down to Austin is my chance to live in a great city and still work at a great company. In other words it's my chance to have my cake and eat it too.

Some people see this company either as a bunch of cocky egomaniacs trying to hype themselves as rock stars or a passionate and innovative experiment in game design with a lightning bolt of business savvy on a grand scale. I think I like that.

Anyways, all I can say for now is "Hey Warren! Get that sandbox ready! Wahoo!"

P.S. Dallas sucks and yes, I'm still bitter about my truck getting broken into.

11-12-97

I just want to warn folks something. Don't finger my .plan manually. It's become a tad on the lengthy side. I'll figure out what to do with it eventually. Maybe after I find a publisher. Heh....

11-11-97

I just finished playing the dirtiest nastiest game of AoE I hope to ever play. And came out on the winning side. Awwww yeaaaa.

The Daikatana demo from the Frag is out finally. Hopefully there'll be more of my stuff in the next one. The satyr is the only a taste of what's to come. There's sixty more guys like him. Hope you dig it.

Back to the battlefield! 
11-04-97

Sorry I missed the Frag folks, but I was out of commission with the flu. Ack. But I did manage to close on my house! Wahoo! I'm a homeowner! Eventually the impact of that will eventually hit me, but at least I have space for my Street Fighter II machine. Now I need to save up my lunch money for a jacuzzi....

And good luck Gary, say hi to Sonya for me. I'm going to be bummed if you guys end up being millionairres before I do... :)


10-24-97

Ok, no more submissions please.


10-23-97

Just to clarify some points on potential artist candidates. It requires relocation to Dallas and the emphasis is on 2d drawing skills. Also we're only looking for one artist.


10-21-97

Hey we're hiring!

We're making some personnel changes really soon and several artists will be moving onto another project, so we're looking for a 2d texture artist for Dabug's medieval levels. The artist MUST HAVE TOP NOTCH DRAWING SKILLS and be proficient in Adobe Photoshop or an equivalent. Send samples to Jerry O'Flaherty at jerry@ionstorm.com or me and I'll forward them. You can also mail them to us at





	ION Storm

	2200 Ross Ave. Suite 3050

	Dallas TX 75201







10-16-97



Doh. Stormfront. Sorry guys.:) Do I really sound like that? I think a "pansyfilter" was being run over my voice.



10-15-97



Just saw the latest PCGamer and the article on ION. It's a pretty gushy "ION is swell" piece and man, what a huge photo! Anyways, it'll take all of two seconds for someone to guess where the Mad Somoan is in the photo. 



And Levelord, we know nothing about any fire, it must have been the sun's rays passing over some smog, or swamp gas or something and on that note, we know nothing of the missing 15 pounds of plutonium from Cassini for that matter.



Also, I'll be on Pseudo's Stormwatch tomorrow at 8 Eastern/ 7 Central.



9-30-97



Hmmm. I just realized when I said I was happy with the way the chain gunner came out, it sounded like I modeled him, which actually I didn't. Murphy Michaels did. Maybe I'm just fried from doing so many models that I think I did models that I didn't even do. Maybe I meant I just really liked him a lot and was happy  for Murphy...Yea...



Anyways, I think we'll be putting up more of our creatures up on our site, hell we've got sixty or so to eventually choose from, but no bosses will be posted.



Oh yeah. Check out Murphy's Doom Bat. He's neat!



9-29-97



Went to a Sci-Fi collector's convention this weekend. It was cool and Star Wars memorabilia was everywhere! There was a dealer that had the most impressive collection of original star wars figures still in the box that I've ever seen. They also had an impressive lineup of guests, David Prowse (Darth Vader), Phil Brown (Uncle Owen), Chase Masterson (Leeta, Deep Space Nine) and some Star Trek Voyager dude. Regretfully Warwick Davis cancelled. While some of my friends bought Star Wars stuff, all I did was pick up some trading cards of artists like Frazetta, Gil Elvgren, Ken Kelly, Olivia and about a dozen comic book graphic novels. Oh yeah, a little Speed Racer Mach 5 car too.



Umm. Well we're finally confident enough to show a little of our art. There's some on our website. Just look in the Games section at the main menu. I'm pretty happy with the way the chain gunner came out.



9-22-97



Went to Ensemble's ship party last Friday and watched Romero suck it down. Not bad for someone that never played it before. Anyways, he's really digging it and is on a big Age of Empires kick now. It's pretty cool, but buggy. Tricia a.k.a. Sxygrl was in town. Spent the weekend recovering from Niqui's birthday and Tom's party afterward. 



Finally got a chance to watch my Gundam videos. I've been searching for the Mobile Suit Gundam episodes on tape for several years and finally found them. It's amazing how well the series holds up after fifteen years!



Doing a minor overhaul on several character models to give them more personality and make them more dynamic. I'm really impressed with Final Fantasy VII and Abe's Odyssey's marketing campaign. Blitzkrieg baby, blitzkrieg!





"Tread lightly.., for we are on the path to hell"



								-Ogami Ito "Sword of Vengeance"





9-19-97



I just wanted to offer my congrats to Sonya Roberts a.k.a. "MsBarrows" on her new job at Pseudointeractive as a level designer and artist. Pseudointeractive is a company started by ex-Origin Systems programmer and friend of mine, David Wu and several friends. David was only at Origin for several months before he got sick of the politics and corporate culture, but he made a hell of an impact there and had everyone eating out of his hand trying to get him to stay on. Right now they're working on an incredible looking vehicle combat game called Inertia. There are some pretty amazing things going on in the game, physics and lighting wise and that's just in DirectX. I'm looking forward to the 3dfx version in the near future. If you're interested, try bugging them at www.pseudointeractive.com into giving out their demo. At first impression, it's raw, the controls needs refining, and the levels are very, very basic, but hey, that's what Sonya's there for. Anyways, keep an eye out for Inertia in the future. David's going to go far in this industry, you can bet on it.



 

9-10-97



Just got back from this big weird uber-rave. Moby, Empirion, and 808 State were there among other acts. There were lots of fine women and good music. It got really weird during Aphex Twin's gig. Giant neon teddy bears, women in pink spandex on stilts, and even a streaker.



Paul's .plan had nothing to do with me. I'm not the Jeff of "Jeff and Andy" that he was referring to although I bump into him every once in a blue moon.



Our character/creature skins are going to be beeeyoootiful thanks to our secret weapon. Models too. 





 

9-07-97



Sheesh! I've been spending a lot of time in Austin lately. It's nice to see old bosses (Warren) and old teammates (Dave, Steve, and Kraig) come aboard. One thing I find amusing is how little the Quake community knows about Warren. ION Storm hired "some dude named Warren Spector" indeed.



Been playing Outlaws. Got stuck twice so far and had to consult a walkthrough guide. I'm not a gaming purist, unlike Romero. Sorry. However, I would like to thank Roger Tan for his informative Outlaws website and walkthrough guides. You rule!





8-20-97



Well, I've been moved into my warehouse loft digs and it's real cool. Totally bohemian and the iron girders give it "ambience". Now I need to save up for the downpayment to actually buy the thing instead of renting it. It's real quiet except for Fridays and Saturdays when everyone swarms into Deep Ellum for the nightlife and the occasional shooting murder, but I've got three other IONStorm neighbors to help in a nasty situation. Well.... Ok. I've got some nunchuks and bug spray.



Looked at the Chasm demo. It's really cool and I can't wait until I see more. What I'm really looking forward to seeing more of is the X-Men TC. The models are great and the skins really utilize the models for all their worth. It'll be interesting seeing what else comes from John Gorden.



Did a doublefeature of Event Horizon/Time Bandits. Time Bandits was better. Event Horizon was basically Aliens and a Clive Barker story. The sets were awesome though.



As for Daikatana, I'm busting them out and the animators are hot on my trail animating them. Maybe some previews will be put up soon. They're fly. The fledgling low-poly corp of artists are producing some quality models for Anachronox. Not bad for 2nd generation Paul Steed scions and that Squaresoft artist is like, good and stuff...



Also, I'm looking into learning level editing, as if I don't have enough things to do.



8-15-97



Thresh may be the deathmatch king, but I can stuff 20 gumballs in my mouth. Suck it down.



8-02-97



Damn. I'm out of pumpkin seeds....Sigh.



7-21-97



Well last week was fun although my truck getting broke into yet again was kinda anticlimactic. :( What kind of moron picks/slim jims my doorlock, siphons the gas, steals the car registration, leaves the lights on, and leaves a drink coaster on my dashboard? This is getting pretty damn surreal. Hell, there ain't jack squat to steal thanks to previous break-ins. I'd think it's almost funny if I hadn't spent all Sunday trying to find someone to get a jumpstart from.



Well, I did go to Quakecon. One of the first things I did was attend Paul Steed's seminar on low-poly modeling. I was pretty much up on most of the things Paul covered but it helped confirm I was on track with the approaches that I was taking towards the character models. If anyone was wondering who the hell the big dude was that Paul would periodically point to in the middle of the room, that was me. Paul's absolutely right about the hardware requirements for lowpoly modeling. A 486 DX2 and 3DSR4 is all it takes to model and animate game-quality real-time models.



One of the next things I did was hook up with Dan Rockwell from ADV films. They distribute a lot of manga and asian films and I've been corresponding with him over e-mail for several months, trying to score some free stuff AND IT WORKED! Woohoo! They've got a pretty cool selection and they're a pretty classy setup overall. They've got quite a few familiar hit titles that I didn't know they distributed and they're not overzealous in their appreciation for manga unlike a lot of "otaku" I've encountered. Keep me up to date on new releases Dan! And stay cool!



Finally met Thresh! After bumping into him down in the convention center, Romero and crew went up to Centaur Interactive's suite and we shot the shit with him. I even got to watch him handily smack down challengers over at Romero's Thursday and Friday night. Watching him play is like...a religeous experience. Over those two nights, he beat Romero, Paradox, Killcreek, Shadow, and Voin. Usually into negative scores too. I considered playing him for about .0001 seconds before I realized I would have nightmare episodes so brutal they would make me curl up into a fetal position after he would get through with me.



Saw the id guys there. Romero and Carmack chewed the fat over (what else?) their Ferraris. Some other guys I met were Onethumb, Zoid, Nash Werner (from PCGames Online), and the notorious Blue! Voin, Vertigo, and I did a little RealAudio for Nash, but guess what? All it does is play Blue's interview! Wassupwitdat? :)



I saw Hexen2 over there. It's lookin' good. Looking forward to its release.



I finally got to meet Tricia or "sexxygrrl" on #Quake. She's the Eidos rep that was tromping around the IONStorm gig at the Harvey hotel in the slinky black dress. She's an interesting gal. Are you ready for this? She's asian, into asian cooking, comics, skating, hong kong movies, VERY into manga, and I hear VERY VERY into Tombraider2. "But" she's taken. Oh well...



I've gotten to see both Tom and John's houses. They're very cool, but damn, what a commute!



Anyways, I'm moving out of my roachmotel of an apartment and into Cleaner's old loft in the "Stormdorm". Should be cool. I have the feeling many an Ionstormer will be stopping by when they have a few yaegermeisters too many... That should take some of the load off of Doug "Fresh". Poor Doug would be macking on some girls and all of sudden "knock, knock!!! Oh, gee guys, how nice of you to stop by..."





Favorite quote this week:





Sverre (to Thresh): "Um..how'd you get the rocket to bend around that wall?"





7-17-97



Going to QuakeCon later on, tell ya how it was soon. 



The Master of Infernal Noise is doing some of the freakiest music I've ever heard right now. Sends shivers down my spine. 



Heard there were more layoffs at Origin and some of my friends got let go:( 



I saw Wild Arms this week. Really cool and the music is out of this world. 



Also, Voin seems to have developed a new superpower. All he has to do is kneel next to a computer and without touching it, it will reboot. We did a background check on him and discovered he was indeed born in Chernobyl. I'm bringing some microwave dinners from home tomorrow to help him test his next superpower in development.



 





7-10-97



Cocky little artists whose names rhyme with "groin" that manipulate other artists' .plan files should be subjected to a christening ala Jake Hughes syle or be made to smell Todd Porter's finger.







7-9-97



Well poopie.... We had a little tourney here last night to decide who'll represent ION Storm in the Quakecon celebrity (or was that celery) deathmatch contest and I didn't make the cut. Just barely got edged out... Ok, ok, I was thirteenth out of sixteen. Anyways those that made the cut were Voin, Indigo, (Lord) Shadow, and Squirrel. Not a big surprise there I guess. Since Voin kinda had the most frags after the five rounds, now he's got a big head and is demanding that we all drink only Fresca soda, wear sportscoats and learn Russican because he's too damn lazy to speak English. We're pooling our lunch money together to put a contract out on him, but wait, who would do awesome low poly stuff? (my dog?). After Quakecon, that is...Oh yeah, I think Romero placed seventh.



I contemplated growing my hair out like Romero, but with my curly locks and dark complexion, I think I'd end up looking like Slash. 



7-8-97



My, oh my, it's been a busy week! I'm looking forward to QuakeCon and might be doing a little deathmatching in preparation. I had a relatively safe 4th of July weekend, mostly staying in touch with old friends and just overall chillin'. Some of us went to Billy's Society of the Damned gig at The Galaxy Club. I thought their posters were so cool that I just had to go! Anyways, we played a little pool with the Cat Daddy and a friend, hung with Rob Atkins and I even spied a large contingent of Prey team members there. What really made my day was that a couple guys from Boston e-mailed me the day before about potential hotels in the Dallas area if they were to fly in to see SoTD (and catch some Dallas sights). Well, these guys ACTUALLY SHOWED UP at the club and we gave them the whirlwind tour of the ION digs afterwards in exchange for a ride back.  



I have seen into the abyss called John Romero and it's....hmmm....unsettling.

Romero was showing some comics he did when he was just a wee little game-ty