Welcome to Human Head Studios' Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Mike Werckle
Email: mwerckle@humanhead.com
Description: Artist
Project: Rune
Web Page: Human Head Studios' Web SiteThis plan file is the opinion of the individual who writes it and does not reflect the opinions of the Human Head Studios.
Last Updated: 06/21/1999 17:06:34 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6/21/99
--Check out the interview I did on The Adrenaline Vault: www.avault.com

--Thanks to David LaPrad for his excitement about RUNE and for asking 
such great in-depth questions!

6/20/99
--Wrapped up some lingering issues with the modeling and animation pipe.  
It's not perfect, but it is very flexible.  My only wish would be finding 
a way to "import" new UV coordinates onto an exisitng model in Softimage 
so that I could be animating the creature *while* the 2D artist works on 
the skin.  Other than that, our MEATSOCK system is incredibly flexible.  
We can easily tweak and replace meshes, or parts of meshes right up until 
we go GOLD.  That's a good feeling, because sometimes it just takes 
time to "work" something to a point that you are happy with it.  This 
was impossible in the past because of the linear nature of our work 
pipelines-- every element was worked on until completion and then 
passed on to the next guy.  Working this way made it very time consuming 
to go back and re-work or fix something, and made small tweaks downright 
unthinkable.  I am a huge proponent of the philosophy that the difference 
between "good" and "great" is in the tweaks, and that's why I am so 
pleased with out current system.  If a character's leg is deforming 
badly, for example, we can go back and fix that part of the mesh quite 
easily, without having to redo the entire character.

6/12/99
--It was a week of intense meetings.  During the brainstorming phase of 
development, RUNE had gotten a little bloated.  This week we made some nips 
and tucks to the design and have ended up with a much tighter product.  A 
major issue was deciding on the system for allowing RAGNAR to pick up and 
use objects in the game.  We came to the major realization that RUNE isn't 
about rearranging the furniture.  Its about exploration and furious hand-to
-hand combat with mighty weapons.  Who cares if you can pick up crap or 
move it around?  We made the decision that, if RAGNAR can use it like a 
weapon (sword, axe, rock, severed arm, sausage, loaf of bread, etc.), then 
he can pick it up, but if he can't, then he's just not interested in it.  
This will save us a *huge* amount of development time and allow us to focus 
more of our energy on what matters:  hacking monsters to bits.  

6/7//99
--I'd like to announce HUMAN HEAD'S new modeling and animation system.  We 
affectionately call it our "MEATSOCK technolgy."  It stands for "Mike's 
Enveloping and Animation Technique for Supplemeting Our Crappy Knowledge of 
technology."  With it we can make guys run around and chop people's heads 
off real good.  ;) 

--Wrapped up an awesome story meeting for RUNE.  Ted and I have been hard at 
work fleshing out the story for the past few weeks, and we presented it to 
the group this morning.  Response was overwhelmingly positive.  The story of 
RUNE has a strong set-up and motivation, a few twists along the way, and a 
powerful ending.  I'm especially proud of the way our villain is shaping up.  
The hardest part will be waiting a year for everyone to experience it.  On a 
personal note, I must say "thank you" to HUMAN HEAD and Ted Halsted for 
allowing me to give so much input.  I have been **champing-at-the-bit** for 
a long time to make a contribution of this magnitude to a game.  And finally 
I'm doing it, which makes me very happy.  It's a testament to the effectiveness 
of HUMAN HEAD'S philosophy that the developer's interests and strengths define 
the structure of the team, and not the opposite: being plugged into a 
pre-defined position.  Thanks for trusting me dudes!


6/2/99
--finished skinning, boning and animating the Dealy Dangler fish.  He has a 
huge mouth that opens just like a real fish's does.  I added a bone to 
simulate the way a fish's jaw dislocates to swallow his prey.  It's quite 
dramatic.

--Skins are becoming easier to make.  I can make a decent one now, while I 
couldn't just a year ago.  With higher poly counts on our models, we no 
longer need the general form and and shadow/ highlight work that was once 
necessary in a skin.  Now the polys are defining such things as clothing and 
hair, and the artists are basically just coloring those in and adding tiny 
details.  Engines are beginning to handle the highlights and shadows on the 
models in real-time.

--animated the Eel.  Trying a new technique with this creature to make his 
attacks more specific.  If it works he will be able to strike at you at any 
point within a defined radius, with a minimum of extra animation.


5/31/99
--Paul and I tweaked out the dynamic head-look animation for skeletal 
characters.  Added a slight tilt to the head as it turns which helps it look 
much more nartural.  Also, bringing the torso into play sooner helped us avoid 
the broken neck syndrome, common in some other games.

--Cranking out a skin for a Deep Underwater fish.  Skinning isn't my forte, but 
I'm having fun doing it.  Getting a chance to find out what Softimage can do in 
this arena.  I'm finding it to be quite flexible, but I wish the UV update in 
the 3D paint tool was quicker.

--With content in games growing at a seemingly exponetial rate, a system to keep 
track of the game's assets is in order.  I devised a system that stimulates 
communication and interaction between team members without bogging workflow down.   
Each asset has its own folder containing concept art, creature notes and an 
approvals checklist.  Team members are assigned folders and can see who has 
approved the work up to it's current state.  Logical team members are consulted 
and sign-off at each step of the process.  It is supremely efficient because we 
are virtually eliminating all the lame reasons for re-doing work, like finishing 
a model only to find out that a key team member never saw the concept art.  

--Thanks for the finger server, RJ!


5/21/99

Back from e3.  Thanks to everyone who stopped by the Human Head trailer.  We had 
a great time showing of the beginnings of RUNE and I am looking forward to showing 
off even more at ECTS.
