Welcome to Human Head Studios' Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Mike Werckle
Email: mwerckle@humanhead.com
Description: Artist
Project: Rune
Web Page: Human Head Studios' Web SiteThis plan file is the opinion of the individual who writes it and does not reflect the opinions of the Human Head Studios.
Last Updated: 11/04/1999 13:30:52 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11/4/99
*****CLARIFICATION*****

I jumped the gun on the announcement about the RUNE tech being 
available as part of the UNREAL engine.  In fact, it is *not* a 
part of the UNREAL engine.  We have entered into an agreement 
with Epic to be a 'preferred provider' of additional technologies 
for the Unreal engine, and ALL INQUIRIES should be made to Human 
Head studios, NOT Epic Games.  I repeat, please do not contact 
Epic on this issue, but rather contact Human Head Studios at:

www@humanhead.com

My apologies to Jay Wilbur and everyone at Epic for this 
misunderstanding.

For more information, please feel free to check out our website:

http://www.humanhead.com/rune_technologies.htm

11/3/99
--It was announced at The Frag that Human Head's RUNE technology 
is now available as part of the UNREAL engine.    

The RUNE technology brings real-time Skeletal Animation, Continous 
Level of Detail, incredible looking Shadows, as well as several 
other super cool features to the UNREAL Engine.  As an animator, 
I can enthusiatically  say that RUNE'S skeletal system in 
conjunction with the UNREAL Engine is the best tech that I have ever 
worked with.  The skeletons are completely hierarchical and use 
rotational interpoliation.  This eliminates the motion artifacting 
that is present in vertex animation systems as well as 
non-hierarchical skeletal systems.  Basically, it means that no 
matter what framerate the aniamtion is played back at, it will look 
correct, retaining mesh proportions.  It also virtually 
eliminates the need for transition animations, as the software 
automatically interpolates between sequences.  I could go on and 
on...

If you are a developer, please contact Epic or Human Head for more 
information on the UNREAL Engine with the RUNE technology.  Serious 
inquirires only, please. Also stay tuned to www.humanhead.com for a 
complete list of features.  Feel free to contact me if you have 
further questions about animation using RUNE Skeletal.

mwerckle@humanhead.com

--A word on re-spawning:  It's very disheartening as a player to 
"clear" an area, only to be forced back through it to fight the same 
fight.  But if handled correctly (as has been described in the case 
of SOF), I think it can be a very effective design tool, one that we 
are planning to use in RUNE.  

If you are coming back through an area, you shouldn't be forced to 
repeat the same old fight with the same old enemies.  This is 
repetitive and boring.  But it *is* OK to encounter new enemies 
in the same area if the situation is different.  Maybe the second 
time you come through, the enemies are expecting you and have 
set a trap or are waiting in ambush.  Or perhaps you come across 
a couple of characters who are trying to rescue one of the other 
enemies that you mowed down your first time through.  Whatever the 
case, keeping the situtations interesting and non-repetitive is the 
key to good design, whether you are encountering enemies in the same 
place or not.

10/31/99
--While at Human Head it has been my policy to keep my plan file as 
informative as possible, and to avoid including personal and non-game 
related comments.  Today I will bend that rule in the interest of 
setting the record straight.

last year, when I worked for Ritual Entertainment, I made it a habit 
to be confrontational and out-spoken in my plan file.  I made comments 
about specific individuals and companies that I regret making.  After 
I left Ritual I promised myself that I would apologize publicly 
to these people if I ever got a plan file again.

1)  I would like to apologize publicly to Brian Raffel for the negative 
comments I made about Raven Software and Activision after I left Raven.  
I was at a bad place in my life and willing to take it out on anyone.

2)  Also, I would like to apologize to Steve Stringer (former 
producer at Activision), for some terrible comments I made about him 
in my plan last summer.  I'm sure I ruined his day, if not his week and 
I'm sorry.

3)  I made negative remarks about Dynamix (my first job in games) 
while at Ritual, and there was no place for this.  For the most part, I 
have fond memories of the summer I worked there and now I am sad to see 
that Dynamix has lost its identity.

4)  Finally, I would like to apologize to the gaming community in 
general for my behavior and my attitude in the past.  I'm sorry.

I went back and read some of these old posts and realized how childish 
and unprofessional I had been.  I was just trying to be crazy like Paul 
Steed or something, and that's about as stupid a thing as I ever could 
have done.  

CHAOS is officially very, very dead.  (well mostly  ;)

-->Mike Werckle

10/25/99
--Here is a post I made to the Official RUNE forum at 
www.developers-corner.com :

Last week I made a post to my plan file asking for people's 
opinions on what RUNE should be like. I got a ton of responses from 
people, and a lot of interesting topics were brought up. One of 
them was melee vs. ranged weapons.  As you are probably aware, RUNE 
is a 3rd person hand-to-hand combat game. That means that the 
weapons are all melee (swords, axes, hammers), and we aren't 
planning any ranged weapons (like crossbows, spears, etc.) The 
reason we are doing this is because 3rd person games are not very 
well suited to aiming or ranged attacks, and we want to keep the 
game focused on doing one thing well:  fast and furious hand-to-
hand combat.

But we *are* planning on allowing the player to "throw" the weapons. 
Now by throw, I don't mean hurling an axe a hundred yards to peg 
someone off a tower. Throwing in RUNE is most effective in the close 
range-- about 10 to 15 feet. The upside is that these attacks will 
be very powerful, but the downside is that you have to retreive the 
weapon.

I'd like to get some feedback on what you all think about this 
concept of "ranged" attacks for RUNE.

Post your feedback at www.developers-corner.com, or feel free to 
email me directly with your comments.

10/21/99
--There is a quicktime movie of RAGNAR that I made, which is up on 
our website.  I animated this run cycle, and as you will see, we 
are doing just fine without the use of motion capture.

http://www.humanhead.com/main_menu.htm

--Another word on Motion Capture.  The deeper I get into this 
project, the more confident I am of my decision to *not* use mocap.  
Not that we are the best animators on the planet.  But the 
complexity of our new combat system requires traditional keyframing 
in order for everything to work.  The exception to this would have 
been utilizing mocap for death sequences.  But I wanted to keep our 
skeletal setups as simple and flexible as possible, and introducing 
mocap would have complicated matters way too much.  Of course, 
I do think mocap is an appropriate technique for some projects, just 
not RUNE.

--Thanks very much to everyone who sent in suggestions for RUNE.  I 
got about sixty emails, and I am trying to reply to them all.  Lots 
of very good suggestions.  I pasted all the emails into a word doc, 
and sent it out to the rest of the team, and they have found it to 
be a very valuable resource.  Mostly, it is a confirmation that we 
are on the right track with this game.  I also made a list of topics 
that I will bring up next week in our design meeting.  Once again, 
thanks to all who replied, and watch this space for more info.


10/17/99
--Hey, some of us have been known to jerk our knees once in a while, 
but that's no excuse to crucify a man in public (ha! is that coming 
from me?).  All points, however, are well taken...

--Hey everyone:  I would like to get an idea of what the community 
expects out of a 3rd preson action-melee game, specifically RUNE.  

Personally, I am a huge fan of FPShooters (it took UT CTF with the 
Insta-gib mutator to break my Half-Life binge of ten months), but I 
am also a huge fan of fighting games, including the glorious new 
Soul Calibur on the DreamCast.   I am well aware of the dangers of 
trying to make a cross genre game:  in trying to please fans of 
action games and fighting games for example (not that this is what 
we are trying to do with RUNE), we risk alienating them both.  
Being a fan of both of these genres, which are applicable to RUNE, 
I am very sensitive to this connundrum, and I know how I feel about 
it.  But I would very much like to hear what you all think.  Should 
it be an action game with elements of a fighting game, or should it 
be a fighting game where you actually get to run around freely?  What 
would you expect out of an game of this type where you have complete 
control of your character's movement during combat?  For example, 
do you think it is OK to limit the player's movement during an 
attack, even so much as to have him come to a complete stop during 
a move?  Also, what do you imagine the experience of melee combat 
should be like?  An FPS is all about moving through space while 
aiming, but what do you think a melee combat game should be about?  
Are you just clicking away randomly at a guy, or do you want more 
control over your specific movements?  Once again, we all have 
answers to these questions, but I am curious to hear what you  
have to say.  Human Head is dedicated to the advancement of gaming, 
and I think one of the best ways to accomplish this is to listen 
to our customers and peers.  Thanks in advance for your opinions, 
and I will post again in a week or so with an update on this 
subject as well as some insight into my ideas.

mwerckle@humanhead.com

10/1/99
--If you are going to release fake screenshots of your game, remember 
not to anti-alias the characters and weapons to the background...

--Paul was showing me one of the enemies I animated running around in 
the world.  The creature chased Ragnar into a room, and from the corner 
another shape emerged from the shadows.  "Holy shit, who's that guy 
in our game?!" I exclaimed.  For a split second I lost touch with 
reality, didn't recognize an enemy I had *just* worked on, and thought 
that, somehow, a real man had entered the world of our game.  It was 
startling, and then exciting as I realized how cool this damn thing 
is gonna be...

9/21/99
--I think you all will be very happy with the complexity of enemies 
that we are adding to RUNE.  In the old days we used to make "enemies," 
or "monsters," and everyone you encountered looked exactly the same.  
With RUNE'S new skeletal technology we are able to have a huge varitey 
of meshes deformed by the same bones, and  which share the same set of 
animations.  But with the added complexity we have found a need to 
expand our definition of what an enemy is.

ENEMY CLASS:  This basically describes a class of enemies that all share 
the same skeleton.  "Vikings" would be an example of a class of bipeds, 
that implies realistic human porportions in the bones.

ENEMY:  An enemy is defined by its AI, especially its combat behavior.  
There can  be several different Enemies in a Class, but their meshes 
must be distinguishable from each other at a distance.  In RUNE we have 
Goblin Males, and Goblin Warriors.  It will be easy to identify the 
stronger Warriors because of the special masks and armor they'll be 
wearing, whereas the weaker Males have none.  

COMABT VARIANT:  These are a subset of an Enemy group and the variation 
describes a distinct difference in their combat behavior and animations, 
as defined by their weapon.  A Goblin that wields a light axe would 
be different to fight than one that wields a huge club.

MESH VARIANT:  This is also a subset of an Enemy group, but it is 
merely cosmetic and is independent of the Combat Variants.  This allows 
us to have minor variations in an Enemy's mesh and skin that need only be 
distinguishable at close range.  This helps prevent a group of enemies 
from looking like clones of one another.

As you can see, with RUNE you're gonna get a lot of bang for your buck 
in terms of gameplay and visual variety.

--Eric Turman, Lead Animator over at Raven, is a great friend of mine, 
and there's little more satisfying than getting together with him and 
talking shop.  We often call each other to ask questions about how a 
particular feature in softimage works, the best way to accomplish a 
certain effect in one of the games we are working on, or sometimes we 
just talk about where we think the future of animation in games is 
headed.  He and I compliment each other very well:  Eric is 
technically *brilliant,* and, while I have enough technical proficiency 
to talk with him (most of the time), my strength lies in finding the 
simplest way to set things up ;)  And we're are both pretty damn good 
animators.  

It struck me, while eating dinner with him today, how important our 
inter-developer communication is.  Its easy to sort of get into a 
vacuum and start tackling problems, but it helps so much to be able to 
get a fresh perspective on things from people who might be trying to 
do something similar but who are coming at it from a different angle.  
There is *so* much to be gained by this type of interaction, and all 
parties benefit, especially the gamer.  If you haven't checked out 
Soldier of Fortune, I urge you to do so at www.ravensoft.com.  I was 
still at Raven when this project started, and I am very impressed with 
the direction they have taken it.  Too bad you will have to wait to 
play the game to see Eric's incredible mocap art.  (and I hope I don't 
get bollocked for mentioning this either, Jake ;)  I can't wait to 
play it.

9/15/99
--Just had our families and friends over for an open house to see 
the office and look at the RUNE demo.  It was great to see this 
place filled with people and hear all the positive feedback on 
RUNE and coversation about gaming in general.  Thanks to all of 
our friends from Raven who stopped by and offered words of 
encouragement and good suggestions for the game.  Madison is 
really starting to feel like a "Little Dallas."   Our basement 
home was truly alive for the night, and it has relit a spark in 
me to crank on this game. 
 
9/6/99
--check out the screenshots of Ragnar on your favorite gaming news 
site.  There are more to come soon, so keep an eye out.

--Currently, Tim and Paul are at ECTS in London showing off the 
newly redone Ragnar.  This one is a vast improvement over the one 
we showed a month ago at GenCon.  His mesh is far improved, to make 
him look bigger and show more detail, and his animations are 
much more polished as well.  Also of note:  Ragnar now has the long, 
flowing hair that a Viking of his type needs in order to be cool.  
And I also put in extra bones in his shoulders in order deform his 
arms better.  With so much sword swinging in this game, Ragnar 
needs to have very flexible, good looking arms.

--Also in the screenshots and the ECTS demo you will see Jeff and 
Paul's super cool Goblins.  They hold axes or sheilds,  chatter and 
jump around, andwhen you try to attack them they hold up their shields, 
or jump out of the way of you swing.  A very impressive animation 
and AI job on these guys.  The coolest thing is when you chop off 
both of their arms, they try as hard as they can to stay away from 
you, as if they are scared.  Also notice that the goblins all look 
slightly different.  Because of the skeletal system you will be 
hard pressed to encounter two that look exactly the same at the same 
time.

--Jim's gorgeous levels are now starting to be populated with 
super cool stuff!  In addition to the goblins, there are now 
bubbling and belching pits of mud, realistic falling boulders and 
even an underground geyser.  This is the part of the game where 
Ragnar is moving out of the deep sea caves into an area of 
seismic activity...

8/28/99
--I have always shunned the idea of using motion capture.  Generally,
I think it seems poorly implemeted and has a "canned" look to it.  
Also, I think using mocap might possibly be a very good way to kill 
your animation staff's creative growth and dull their skills.  An 
animator who has spent a year working with mocap will be a year 
behind in their development of animation techniques.  When it comes 
time for this person to animate a creature that can't be mocapped 
(like a horse or a bird), then they will very likely be rusty and 
frustrated.  

You might think that hiring a bunch of talentless lackies to work 
with the mocap data would be the way to go.  But it really takes a 
skilled animator's knowledge of motion to get it all working properly.  
And thats where the connundrum is:  In order to do good mocap, you 
still need well trained animators, but they *hate* doing it.  It's 
very similar to the idea of making a fine painter trace all of his 
stuff from photoraphs.  Might look realistic, but the work is 
ultimately unfulfilling.  

Having said that, I just started playing Soul Calibur on the Dreamcast 
and I might just be converted.  This game is incredible.  Very well 
implemented motion data.

I guess if I wanna stay in this business, I will eventually have to 
start using motion capture, and who knows, I might even like it.  But 
I really do think the transition for me will be slow.  Depending on 
the needs of our next game, I will probably recommend to the owners 
that we install our own mocap studio here at Human Head.  I like 
the idea of using a captured motion as a tool, as a starting point 
and moving on from there.

8/27/99
--Go see 13th Warrior, it's awesome!!!  And pay no attention to the 
scene where they are carrying a body away and someone says "Ragnar's 
Dead."  It got of to a bit of a shaky start, but this movie really 
won me over.

8/20/99
--go here and vote for RUNE as the most anticipated action game:

http://www.pcparadox.com/Editorials/Choice/Action13.shtml#Rune

--Today I am 30, which officially makes me a geezer in the computer 
game industry.  This bday was made special by the fact that last 
weekend I was reunited with my birth mother.  I have three new sisters, 
a brother, two grandparents, an uncle, and two cousins.  Meeting my 
grandparents was really cool, since my other ones have been gone for 
quite a while.

They all gave me a cake, and as I started to make a wish and blow out 
the candles, I realized that every previous year on my bday I had 
always wished that I would someday meet my mother.  I realized that I 
can start wishing for something else!  Like meeting more women, or 
getting a new car, or going to work eith Steed at Id, or something like 
that.

--Chris and I sat down last night and solidified the combat system 
for RUNE.  We have found a very elegant way to determine differing 
types of damage based on our three weapon categories:  sword, axe and 
hammer.  We hope that the system will make melee combat very robust, 
and appealing to fans of action games.  The controls are very simple, 
but the combinations will be endless.  If you are the kind of player 
that likes to stomp through a level smashing everything head-on, you 
will like this game.  And if you are the kind of player that likes 
to figure out subtle nuances and experiment with different moves, you 
will find a lot of variety hidden under the surface.

8/17/99
--I would like to make contact with animators who are interested 
in coming to work for Human Head Studios in the near future.  A strong 
art background, solid character animation skills and a willingness to 
relocate to Madison, WI are a must.  Experience with games and with 
Softimage are plusses.

We are a small team-oriented company that is comitted to quality.  No 
corporate non-sense, no polotics or in-fighting, no contracts.  Just 
honest hard working people, flexible hours, free pop and snacks, 
and much more. 

Interested?

Mike Werckle
Lead Animator
Human Head Studios
608 298 0643 x31
mwerckle@humanhead.com
www.humanhead.com

8/16/99
--The guys from the up-and-coming site gamestrategy.com were here 
visiting with us last Thursday and Friday (cheese beer!).  These dudes 
are super cool game fanatics, and we all wish their new site the best 
of luck.  Look for in depth coverage of Rune and life at Human Head 
Studios, in the coming weeks.

--Ragnar's mesh has been completely revised.  The mesh and animations 
that were shown at GenCon were our first pass, and we used the feed-back 
from the crowd (and even a few trusted Raven friends) to make him look 
much stronger.  It really helped to have our baby under the glaring 
flourescent lights of the convention because his strengths and 
weaknesses became so much more apparent.  We knew going into this thing 
that it would take several incarnations of Ragnar to find the one we 
were happy with, so we really haven't wasted any work.  The old Ragnar 
mesh was a little mushy looking, but the new mesh is one that we are all 
*very* excited about.

8/9/99
--If you get a chance, stop by the GOD booth at GenCon and take a look 
at RUNE.  We have Ragnar in and running around the world.  He can pick 
up three different weapons and he carry each of them in full view on 
his body.  The sword is tucked into his belt on his left hip, the club 
fits on his right hip, and the axe is on his back.  There are also 
animations for switching between each of these weapons.  When RUNE 
is done, we will have a ton of different weapons all of which Ragnar 
will be able to carry in full view like this.  Ragnar is also able to 
pick up and carry a torch, which casts light back on him, the other 
creatures and the environments.  

Also, It's neat to see how Ragnar turns his head to look at the other 
creatures, or to look at weapons that he can pick up.  When he is 
breathing hard, he really gives the impression that he is alive.  It's 
just the beginning...  =)

7/19/99
--take a look at the interview I did for Big Al over at 3D-Unlimited:  
http://www.3d-unlimited.com/interviews/rune/

Thanks Big Al!

7/14/99
--I can't say enough how pleased I am with our system for getting 
animated elements from Softimage into RUNE.  Paul has done an incredible 
job of supporting us, even though it hasn't been the easiest for him.  
All moving game elements, from creatures to in-game cinematics to scripted 
sequences, as well as UV coordinates, go through Softimage and into RUNE 
via our single proprietary file format, fondly referred to as a SCUM file 
(.scm).  And all with a great deal of ease.  Basically, the way that we 
animate stuff in Softimage is the way that it appears in the game, 
including cameras and lights.  I shudder to think what a mess this would 
all be if we were forced to use another software.  After all, we're not in 
the business of making our programmers lives easier, we're in the 
business of making a great game. I guess I just feel lucky to work for a 
company that supports the best animation software in the world.  Thanks, 
Paul.

7/4/99
--Here is a copy of my post on sCary's Shugashack messageboard.  It was my 
reply to one fan's comment on RUNE:  "Who the hell cares?  Really."

My post:  

"There are companies out there that take a popular game and remake 
it with only cosmetic changes.  Human Head is *not* one of those companies.  
With RUNE we are trying to push the envelope by exploring new modes of 
gameplay and expanding in new directions.  Personally I liked Tomb Raider 
and Heretic2, but their major flaw was that the weapons were mostly ranged 
or area effects.  I know that a lot of people, myself included, played 
Heretic2 using only the melee staff, which was uprgraded several times 
through the game.  There was something very satisfying about running up to 
a creature and spinning around and slicing them into chunks.  For me, the 
great lesson of Heretic2 is that First Person games are better for aiming 
ranged weapons, and Third Person games are better for hand-to-hand combat.  
It is with