Login: jason          			Name: Jason Zelsnack
Directory: /home/jason              	Shell: /bin/bash
Never logged in.
New mail received Wed Dec  2 07:56 1998 (CST)
     Unread since Wed Dec  2 04:33 1998 (CST)
Plan:







#define COMPANY  "Rebel Boat Rocker, Inc."

#define NAME     "Jason Zelsnack"

#define E-MAIL   "jason@rebelboatrocker.com"





plan(12-2-98)
{
 A couple things inspire me writting this.
 1. I haven't written a .plan in over a month
 2. I've had enough of people bashing Tresspasser
 3. The desire to inspire hate

 Landon sent around an e-mail about some tresspasser.avi he had in his network
 directory. I went and watched it. It was some guy who filmed a little satire
 of the control system in tresspasser. He tried to put a disk in a computer
 but just kept slapping it against the front and then he dropped the disk.
 Then he went and tried to stack some coke cans, using the same retarded motions.

 I thought the thing was funny and so did Landon who likes Tresspasser and
 played all the way through it. My problem with it was that it's just one more
 person mocking something they didn't understand.

 Out of all the PC games that have came out in the last year, Tresspasser is
 the game I played the most. (About 60 minutes. I don't play PC games anymore
 I will only sit around and watch other people play. Then I'll ask them to show
 me the cool stuff they've seen and done in the game.) During that time I was
 very impressed with the physics and I joked a lot about the silly game control.
 The most fun I had was when I loaded someone's saved game and I came upon a
 dead raptor. I knealt down and petted the dinosaur on the head. I then went
 and got a nearby bat and smacked it about and tried to tumble the corpse around.
 While kneeling down I smacked the raptor on the hind legs and the bat popped
 out of my hand and shot up the raptor's butt and halfway out its' back. Everyone
 in the room started laughing there asses off while blood shot from where the
 bat had penetrated. About fifteen seconds later the bat shot out and disappeared.


 Mocking()
 {
  Getting back to my point of mocking Tresspasser.
  For years people have been bitching about how unimaginative games are today.
  That games offer no game play elements, just visuals. And in the good ole days
  when there weren't fancy-lad graphics the game designers made these great
  masterpieces which are now classics today. Out of these classics there are
  none which I think I could invest anytime in playing. The only old games I
  could even think of playing are "Dark Castle" on the Amiga, and "Jump Man",
  "Load Runner", and "Racing Destruction Set" on the C-64. Oh, and of course the
  fabulous game "Break Street". Umm... there is one "classic" game I can play,
  "Ms. PacMan" on difficult.
 }

 Parallel_mania()
 {
  There are many parallels in the gaming industry to the movie industry. Both
  movies and games are getting larger, more spectacular, and more expensive to
  make. There's a supposed decline in character development and a lack of plot. A total
  reliance upon visuals over storyline.
  Guess what?
  In both industries in the past almost all games and all movies lacked nearly
  everything. Go whip out some Coleco vision game and try to play it for 14 hours
  straight. Or go and rent nearly any movie from the 70's. Nearly everything sucked
  and had no substance of any sort. Now-a-days movies and games with spectacular visuals
  are accused of leaving out plot and game play because they are unessential as
  long as you have big explosions. No, the difference here is that now there
  is at least one decent thing in most new movies and new games. Before when
  everything sucked about a game or movie, you just said, "Man that sucked!"
  Instead of going, "Wow, at least that movie looked good even though it had a
  horrible plot." It's now, "That movie sucked because it relied upon special
  effects to carry it."

  I personally hated "Godzilla", "Twister", "Jurassic Park", and "Independence
  Day". But when it comes down to it I can rewatch these movies and enjoy the
  good parts in them. There are other movies which I liked a lot but there is
  no way in hell I'll ever rewatch them. The same goes for many games.
 }


 Some_older_classics()
 {
  Charlie Chaplin:
   He is hailed as a comic genius to this day. Yet amazingly I've
   never laughed at him, nor have I've ever heard or seen anyone else show
   the slightest amusement in his actions.

  Old school black and white cartoons:
   Dear god man these things are horrible. There usually some insanely chipper
   and lame anthromorphosized (that's definately not spelled correctly) animal
   or bug creature. This whack character then dances around with farm animals
   and whistles while flailing his or hers spaghetti like unjointed arms about.
   Then this stupid character will do something "amusing", like "bend" his knees,
   wiggle his arms, and look left, then right. To make sure you catch this amazing
   joke it will be repeated not once, not twice, not three times, but four or
   five times. Just to make sure to annoy you.
 }

 Evolution()
 {
  I'm assuming that those classics were great during there time, but now-a-days
  there mostly just plain dumb. As time goes on and stuff becomes more sophisticated
  and advanced, the less amusing the old and more archaic become.

  I've witnessed this change within myself. Almost, every game I played when
  I was younger I'm incapable of playing today. I've tried and failed.
  Just like with "old" television shows I watched as a kid. When TBS put the
  Dukes of Hazards back on I tried to watch a couple episodes. Oh, my gosh
  it is horrible. Not only is it mind numbing and moronic, it also offends me
  greatly.

  There are some things which seem to have a much longer shelf-life though.
  Such as "Leave it to Beaver, "Father Knows Best", "The Donna Reed Show",
  and "Hogan's Heroes".
  As for movies, none seem to hold my attention for very long.
  Same thing is true for games, except for "Ridge Racer", "Virtua Fighter2",
  and "Marvel SuperHeroes."
 }

 No_Going_Back()
 {
  There is no hope of imagining that anyone will enjoy a video game based
  solely upon its' gameplay elements, and requiring no visuals.
  If you were to make the most kick ass game ever on the PC today, but it looks
  like it was made for an Atari 2600, everyone would laugh at it.

  If you don't want fancy interactive stuff, then you go and make a board-game.
  Which if designed well will live for hundreds of years. That's kind of longevity
  will never appear in a continually evolving environment such as the PC.
 }

 Revolutionary()
 {
  Getting back to Tresspasser. It is the most revoltionary and biggest advancement
  in gaming in years. Sure lots of people hated it and ridicule it, and maybe
  it is fundamentally a horrible game (which I doubt very much).
  Games like Tresspasser are the future. It's laid the ground work for essentially
  what I belive to be a new genre. Physics based interactivity with nearly no
  limitations on game play. (Like a pile of building blocks to a child)
  The superficial game play might of faultered, but the core concept is there.
  This is what everyone has been asking for. More interactivity, more realism,
  just unfortunately not more fun at the moment.


  The problem with Tresspasser from what I've seen and heard about it is that
  they built the sup