Login: spen           			Name: Spencer Maiers
Directory: /home/spen               	Shell: /bin/bash
Never logged in.
New mail received Thu Oct 22 15:51 1998 (PDT)
     Unread since Wed Jul  2 16:22 1997 (PDT)
Plan:
10/9/98

I haven't updated my plan for a long time, mainly due to these main reason(s):

* I am worthless

Now that's out of the way, I will conduct my mailing test... Oh, you want to know about my Friday night plans? Surely. Going out with a man-friend to play tiddly winks! We may also play some "go fish" but you know, we gotta call it a night around 9:00 pm, 9:30 at the very latest, mom says.

Oh, you want to hear about my new wardrobe?

* Size 38 Waist Khaki cargo pants for extra sag.
* Man beating boots. Steel toe black leather.
* Puffy Vest. I gotta get this item tonight. Yellow? Yep. made by fFirst Down? Uhhh huh.
* Tight gray calvin klein shirt. The Phatness.

Ok, I'll stop joking around :) I am off, have a good weekend y'all!

-Spen



^?^?^?9/17/98

Just a test, again! Sorry everyone... Here, let me at least tell you what's going on with my life and shit-

http://www.rageofmages.com is up and ready to go! Download the demo and enjoy the nice new site. Also, let me know what you think of the graphics and the design.

I am working a bit these days, but still finding time to do some life shit. I had a good lunch with my boy Aaron today and gorged my fat gut on some bomb-ass chinese food. I usually eat the most at the table, but Aaron put me to shame, I think all the time he is spending in the gym is causing those hunger ducts to open up and scream feed me.

I am heading out this saturday and gonna have a fun weekend.  I am still on the path to hugeness, I am a shade under 190 pounds and growing. Paul B. and Aaron are the new gym team, and my friend Cass is back in it too. We will be so HUGE soon... We will be fading everyone and pumping mad fear. Xcept our legs... they will be such rails of thinness. But who cares when you have pecs, right?

Anyway, end of test and sheeyot.... 

-Thug
^?^?^?9/14/98
Testing Stuff...

^?^?^?6/19/98

Well, it's 6:45 am and I haven't slept. I knew this was going to happen today, I have been planning on it for a week... I have been trying to accept a caffinated beverage every hour to keep me going strong, as my usual intake of water just doesn't cut it at times like this. The NDA contract that Adam talked about in his .plan is also what I am working on, along with Joel... All but one piece is done, and that will only take a few hours to code... YES!

I gotta get the last bitz of of art from Adam pretty soon, so I can stick them into the layout... After finishing his part of the project, Joel fell asleep in his office... he will never know that I stealthily crept into his office and performed some self service while looking at the piece of sleep-drool hanging from his cheek...

The burned CD with our stuff is due at 5:00 PM today, and immediately after we deliver, Adam is on vacation and me and Joel are gonna drag our weary bones over to the local pimpin' movie thizneater to watch the X-Filez Movie. I will probably fall asleep during the previews, and Joel will hold me lovingly while caressing my head and telling me that everything will be ok.

After that, I am going to drive the oil-burner home - all the while pumping mad fear into the LOK - the Lords of Kirkland car gang. They think their pimped out Mistubishi Eclipse GSX is the bomb? Nope... my '87 Miznazda Tre Dewce Tre w/ the optional Dodge Viper V-10 and "No thief would touch me" bodykit can break those punks down in a flash...

When I am at home, it's time to chill with my girl and relax, we haven't had as much time together as we would like this week.

On the weekend, I won't even be trippin' ... I will head straight to the weight room and work this body until it can't take anymore. kinda funny, I work my ass off, yet I see other people in there who are screwing off all the time and lifting 1/2 the weight that I am in relaxed form... Then I realize from the zit infested area they call a back that they are taking the "good" suppliments that you can only buy in Mexico (legally, at least...)

Well, I better get back to work... Time to finish up, and pimp out the rest of 'dis workie...

Spen^?^?^?6/3/98

I had to update my plan just to let everyone know that the Shogo: Mobile Armor Division team is making the most amazing game I have ever seen... I went up to harass Craig and Nathan for a weekly shot for the Shogo website, and GOD DAMN, that game is looking so incredible.

The framerate has increased so dramatically, I can't believe it... it runs smooth as silk now, I can't wait to see what it looks like when it's completed...

The weapons are truly where my jaw dropped and I just about crapped my pants. The explosions are incredible. The recoil, sound effects, and animations make the weapons fun as all hell to use, and god - the missles based weapons snake and weave in the most incredible fashion... I remember seeing Forsaken and I was impressed by the graphics and weapons, but Shogo is the king, baby.

That's all for today... Look for a new Shogo poll and a new Shogo screenshot at http://www.shogo-mad.com later today!

-Spen^?^?^?5/24/98

I am really happy, the Shogo website is kicking ass and getting a lot of hits. Many people are seeing how awesome Shogo is, and damn, it is awesome. Every time I walk by a Shogo team members office, the game is getting more and more pimp!!!! (Aw jeah...)

Shogo also has a new Poll :) it's pretty funny, I was talking with Cool, a webmaster at VooDoo Extreme, and he came up with the idea and I changed it around a little bit. It came out great, so go to www.shogo-mad.com and vote!

Also... Did you enter the Shogo Level Design Contest? Well, if you did, we released some updated files that you need to download. Go to the Shogo website to grab da new stuff.

I saw as good as it gets last night with my friends and it is damn funny.

I also PIMPED my friend Sean in Puzzle Fighter last nite, 10-6 (he was angry)

It seems like whatever game I want to own him at, I can do so amazingly easily... It was such the beating! Morrigan with her green hair cleaned up his pathetic attempts with Shien-Ko (sp?) and dropped some serious blockage on his screen.

Anyway, I'm out. Have a good memorial day everyone, I am goin' to work out my thin little legs at the Gym.

-Spen

^?^?^?5/10/98
Well, it's Sunday morning and I am here at Lith finishing the Riot page. It's looking bomb. I hope to get the page done today, and have tomorrow to do the thousands of small things like code checking and browser compatability. I have already wrestled with Internet Explorer 3.0, 4.0, and Netscape 3 and 4 have issues and little problems as well, but nothing that a few hours of fixing can't work out.

In personal news, I had a good weekend and on friday I went out with friends and unfortunately inhaled a huge amount of second hand smoke. I woke up the next day hacking my guts out (thank the lords Paul and Joel weren't there - I would have gotten huge amounts of shit :).

Also, my friend Jason pointed out last nite that that Deep Impact is actually a subliminally suggestive name... Think about Deep Impact and the different ways you can break up the sentence... Jace came up with "Dee Pimp Act" and I was laughing pretty hard, which was followed by hacking which made me laugh harder, and then hack harder.

I gotta finish up the page. Look for it tomorrow afternoon, located conveniently at http://riot.lith.com




^?^?^?5/1/98
'sup this is masta Spen on da mike... 'n shit...

I am workin' on the Riot site 'n shit pretty late tonite... The layout is going well, and it is looking bomb. I think all the Riot fanz will be totally happy w/ the page, I am looking forward to the 11th so everyone can partake in the splendor that is Riot ;) lots of new areas and goodies for you to enjoy!

In other related news 'n shit, I was thinkin' of all the different G's 'n shit that are in the world... here'z a list 'n shit...

Taco Bell Gangstas
These guys are pretty damn hard. I drove up in the hoopty a couple dayz ago and this dude - I think his name was holmes - gave me a look that pumped mad fear into my bones. I quickly got a Gordita and left.

Quarters Gangstas
Even more diznope than TB G's, the supa-dupa-fly pimpz that hang out at Quarters, the local arcade, straight make me want to cry. I saw this one guy sittin' in his ride 'n shit and he had some 23'' chrome rimz on his '79 Civic hatchback. I soon decided that I should be steppin', so he wouldn't break me.

Strip Crusin' Gangstas
The pinnacle of Hardcore, anyone who is truly a strip cruiser will have these modifications done to their rides:

* Fog Lights, either blue or blinding yellow so you don't know who's steppin' to you 'n shit.
* Exhaust tip or full exhaust system to let everyone know that their .2 liter 1 cylinder engine means business.
* Stickers - even if their '87 Accord didn't come factory installed with a VTEC engine, you can change that quickly with a quick trip to the honda dealer, and buy yourself VTEC power for $4.99 - the price of the VTEC sticker.

* Stereo. If you aren't pumping 150db, you ain't shit 'n shit. You better have both windows down and at least 4 18'' woofers in your "Race Ready" Honda Del Sol.
* You know I ain't forgettin rims. These babies are staples of a playa'. First, spend $1200 for a set of 10 series tires. Then, get at least 17'' rims that are no less than $2500, or stolen. Pimps without rich mom&dad prefer option b.
* Finally, last but definitely not least, you must have the Neuspeed lowering springs. As with rims, if you don't have the $$ for the rims, be sure to cut the stock rims down, which actually gives a very smooth ride. Some pimps even make their cars so low that their wheels are bent inward - the sign of a Mack if I ever saw one.

Unfortunately, I gotta run. I gotta get up in a few hours and come back in to finish up the Riot layout!

-Peace ........... 'n shit


4/17/98

Damn 'n shit.... I just got done spending a couple minz kickin' it old skewl at this site where there are some interesting pictures: http://www.deathnet.com

Anyway, I just finished sending out some news about Zombie licensing the LithTech engine - that's totally awesome news and I love the great response from people that we get, like JT at gamestats and Lorien at PsychoNews... Billy and Cool over at VooDoo extreme... Everybody who is dizzown with da Lith crew is the bomb ass shit.

I need to get a new car. My ride is still pimping, if you call automatically shifting to newtral on left turns pimping, but I kinda want the 95 civic so I can pimp it out and be one with the Lords of Kirkland. Hopefully soon I will get jumped into their gang... They told me that my measly 17'' rims weren't enough and I needed to at least put on 13'' daytons and a 6'' axle extention for me to be considered.

In the meantime I wanna send a bit shout izzout to my peeps in SeaTown - SupDawg...i luv ya... GMoney...keep it real in da streetz boyeee... and last but not least to my supa dupa fly little brother lil-P. 

Until the next loked out plan update

PEACE





