
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: spen
Plan modified: Tue Jan 05 20:35:23 1999

1/5/99

Happy new year everyone, life is great. I had a really phunn evening and spent some hilarious time with my friends. Mad propz to Leon :)

Gruntz website is up, http://www.gruntzgoo.com

On the hunt for a new car, my shit broke. I think that tossing cash into a 1987 Mazda w/ 135,000 miles isn't worth it.

I am desiring a 1993 Honda Prelude. Comes stock with a 2.2 liter 195HP vtec engine, and that should treat me right! I want the mutha in Feburary. Thanks to my "special friend" Kyle for turning me onto the best prelude ever built.

I owned a 1987 prelude 2.0 Si, but that came to an unfortunate end... so I at least know that I like preludes :)

Finishing up a really cool thing tomorrow for work, you will see the results on the web in relatively short order :)

Still trying to gain weight, even though some people think I should cut down on size and lose what fat I have on my body, while keeping the same bodyweight. A challenging goal for someone who eats a steady diet of bad shit.

Gotta run. :)





12/22/98

Working on some pimp shit these days, all of it due on Monday...for sure. Seriously, look for some awesome stuff coming to the web in the next "little bit"...

A lot of people have been doing dope web stuff these dayz, like Syco and the crew from LithWars who are working on ... well, LithWars! ...which is going to be an incredible Shogo/B2 mod! (peep their stuff here: http://www.lithtimes.com/lithwars) ... In related news, the LithTech depot opened recently, and it looks dope. (http://www.planetshogo.com/depot)

Lookin' forward to my woman coming home tomorrow, haven't seen her for a couple weekz... But considering that she has invaded my home "accidentally" I will have plenty of time with her... ehhe!

Going out x-mas shoppin' tonight, at least somewhat :) hheeh it's just a good excuse to go out and have a fun time ;) I like this season... free food is unbeatable. Me an' Pauly 'R gonna roll over to seatown and hit up some storez there... hopefully there will be some hollow, overpriced gifts there for me to squander my earnings on.

After that, hitting up the mad gym. Lord, it's been a few days since I pounded the weights, and I hate missing more than a day or two. I want to hit it hard as hell tonite! I love the 24h gym that I go to... I can work out as late as I want! Maybe I will see Mike-E from http://www.bloodshack.com at the gym again soon... that man is STRONG as shit! I am hoping to achieve 1/2 his level in the future... I will continue trying for 220 LBS on my frail body.

Well, I am going to finish up my work for the day... Have a merry x-mas and happy holidayz everyone. You can bet that I will have a blast... Life is the b0mb.

-Spen


12/7/98

Just thinking about a movie I saw with Bill V and Mike D last nite... "Very Bad Things" ... I really liked the movie, very funny and very dark... But the thing that struck me the most was that this dude's wife-to-be was a movie version of my ex girlfriend... The hurtfllness! I can be certain that a tall friend of mine will make the exact same comments and give me endless crap about it... Thankfully I have grown past that stage of my life, and now I just wanna go to the gym with P. Budd and A. St Bunn

-Spen


12/1/98
Just a quick update as I work late into the night...

I love my PC's speakers.

Brand: JUSTer
Model: Active SP-935 - Hi-Fi Stereo Speakers
Power Rating: 160 Watts (Not sure if they are using the new match or something... 160 watts? yeah, probably not...)

These little bastards keep going no matter how loud I turn them up, and believe I have maxed these little suckaz out.

Other life activities? Getting the Gruntz site up and trying to weight 220 lbs. I hope I make both of these goals... EEk!


11/27/98

I am convinced that I will never develop carpal tunnel syndrome because I never learned to type correctly... I just hunt and peck without looking now. If I had to classify that fact with an adjective, I would use the word "dope"

Well, life goes well.. Had a good, great thanxgivin with my Pop, Uncles, Grandma, and Girlfriend. Many laughs!

I can't wait until the Gruntz site is done, it uses "stretching technology" and is something that I have wanted to put in for a long time! Jeahhhhhhhhhhhh

Hit 255 on the bench for 3 reps by myself yesterday. Paul B. is also getting huge, and his arms (cannons) are growing by the day. So is aaron st john, who is clocking in at a rather manly 205LBS at 5-11. We won't talk about Jason, who is really tall and really huge. I am hoping to get into the "300 club" soon, with Jace and soon-to-be-member Derek F.

Btw, my last read book was "Physical enhancement with fruits and vegetables"

Other news? Gonna probably get a Yellow FUBU hat tomorrow. Their hats actually use "stretching technology" too. Paul tells me I look like crap in it, but who cares *sniff* . It will match my XXXL FUBU shirt and my yellow cross trainers.

Mad shopping day tomorrow, and my el-cheapo bon card is burning a hole in my pocket. Sir castro & I might just need to hit that place up.

Well, back to work. Luvv

Spenjamin




