*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: spen
Plan modified: Sat Feb 13 05:15:10 1999

2/13/99

I got a mad Akimoto intake for my honda prelude. It sounds good :) Not like it adds much performance if any, but it sounds good nonetheless.

Installing it was simple and fun and if you have a honda that needs to sound a little better than the usual 
"buzzzzz" then grab one.

Work goes really well I am having a lot of fun. I hope everyone will like the new endeavor that I am working on! :) It will be nice.

Gotta sleep.

Spen



2/8/99

Just a quick update... It's hailing outside now, madness. Huge amount too, it's like snow on the ground!

In other newz, work is good. Can't wait for the pimp product that we will be displaying in a few short weeks!

I moved into a new place. Nice, cheap, and with good friends. Both computer dudez who work at MS, and we have a 1.5Mbit DSL in our house. It's mad. Eric buffed out my home PC with some goodness that was laying about in spare parts, and I should be pretty happy with that :) heeheh

My girl is still out until the 10th or the 12th... It will be good to see her when she getz back.

I gotta gain weight for reals now, must be 220 by then end of the year. We shall see... 195 (im sorry) --> 220? Possible? And stay decently cut? We shall see...

Anyway, i gotta get back to work. lata! :)

Spen



1/25/99

Been a while since I had an update... Work goes well, and life does too. Going to get busier in the next month so I will be here quite a bit, enhancing the muscles in my clicking & typing hands, while running my poor carpal-tunnel wrists out of much-needed bodily fluid.

My girlfriend is out of town for 2 weeks, so that means I will be a bundle of tears. I think I will make it, but nobody will be there to fill the "mother" figure as I lay in the fetal position crying and punching my thighs.

In other news, I am just chillin' as usual at the gym, trying to gain weight. Working my abs regularly so certain people don't give me shit about the "petina" ...

Saturday was fun, very action-packed. Let's just say that a integra GS-R w/apparent full bolt-on's got SERVED, and that was within the first 15 minutes of the evening :)

Well, I am going to get back to it, luvv

Spen