Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Robert A. Duffy
Email: raduffy@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: 
Last Updated: 12/07/2000 18:38:07 (Pacific Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Team Arena is Gold. :-)

Some other things coming down the pipe from us in the near future.

Source code was made available earlier today to MOD authors so they can prepare their mods to be compatible with the 1.27 point release. This will help get everyone up on the same rev of the game at the same time. The point release ( 1.27 ) will be released a day or two before Team Arena hits shelves

As soon as Team Arena is on shelves, full tool source code will be released as well as new executables and I beleive Graeme will be releasing the ROQ compiler as well. These are all good things. I am going to get Timothee and the GTKRadiant crew tool source in a day or so, so they can prepare that flavor of the editor and tools for the masses.

The official combined game source will be released during the same time period as the tools. This will be the integrated Q3A and TA source base.

Thanks to everyone that assisted with testing during the beta cycle and feedback during the demo. 











Mod Teams

I've had a couple of hundred requests for mod team additions to the new mailing list. I'd like to impose a bit on the people that have sent me a request to going ahead and sign up for the NEW and improved mod list :-) Last week after cutting a release candidate for Team Arena, I sat from about 2.30am to about 4.00am and entered all of the names in but our list software apparantly times out if you don't submit the list every 5 minutes. We are setting up a conferencing system at the moment so the mail list is actually going to be a threaded discussion board. We are going to have one devoted to Licensees and one devoted to mod teams. 

This is now up and running and you can apply for an account here:

http://underworld.idsoftware.com/enter.html

Thanks 

robert...









I've had a lot of requests for info on the terrain stuff that Todd mentions in his plan and which is visible in the demo movie. 

Several things are going on with the terrain stuff. There have been quite a few updates and enhancements made to the engine for TA but the engine has always been quite capable of the triangle counts necessary for terrain.

Jim did some amazing work that allows the terrain brush conversion along the other support necessary to do the texture blending etc. The size capabilities are quite vast. The old restraints in the editor were +/- 4096, the new restraints are +/- 131072. Now there would be some pretty substantial floating point precision errors seeing that distance but the fact is you can make HUGE maps. As long as you have valleys and canyons or buildings etc. you can do some truly amazing things. John pointed out that people will possible run into surface count limitations and so on but this should not be much of an issue. 

As far as FPS issues go, the map with the large gothic looking castles runs about as fast as many of TA's indoor maps, not all of them but based on how they work they are not too hard on system performance.

To give an idea on size, the largest q3a map is tiny compared to the smallest terrain map in TA and that map itself easily fits inside the center section of the largest terrain map in TA. And to put that in persepctive, that map looks like a postage stamp in the +/- 128K area. 

The playground just got a lot bigger. 





Team Arena / Point Release

---------------------
Team Arena frame-rate
---------------------
Team Arena is using more visual effects than Q3A from a map, texture and shader perspective. We are looking at things to make sure that the hit on frame-rate is not too drastic. I've seen reports that frame-rate "feels pretty much just like Q3A" to "it was drastically slower". We will take a look and see where and when we are losing FPS. 

---------------------------
Team Arena Mod Capabilities
---------------------------
Team Arena is going to offer some unprecedented capabilities to mod teams. The UI is entirely scripted ( the menu system, in-game system and HUD ) and you can attach videos anywhere in the UI, on the HUD, in maps, anywhere. The sound system pages things in and out as necessary so you are not limited to just a hand full of sounds. You can easily script full inventory systems, purchase systems, pretty much anything you can think of. This in addition to the voice/order system. There are also a couple of BIG things we are saving for the retail release, which kick things up another notch or two as far as overall capabilities go. 

Quake III Arena has always offered the most capable, technically sound, and best looking game platform around, and now that we have added a whole host of new functionality ( much of it at mod team requests )  mod teams will have in their hands the most complete game production toolkit ever and some really cool toys to play with. They are going to have the ability to produce a complete ass kicking, commercial company spooking, single/multiplayer player game experience. I am looking forward to seeing what people do with the all the new stuff.


-----------------------
Team Arena Order System
-----------------------

If you are not the team leader, the in-game orders menu is not allowing you to change your status, this is a bug. You can accomplish this by binding keys to nextTeamMember and nextOrder. These can be bound in the normal or in-game UI. nextTeamMember works by cycling the selected player on your hud or a list of your team ( up to 5 ). If you cycle to yourself, then use the nextOrder bind you can cycle through the available tasks. 

If you are the leader, you can suggest orders to teammates the same way or you can cycle to the entire team and then choose an order. If you are commanding bots, they will change their status, with human teammates, they have to set their own orders based on your suggestion. 

If you are given a suggestion by the team leader if you press the confirmOrder bind it will change your task automatically and the leader will see and hear and audio/visual response. If you press the denyOrder bind you will deny the order visually.

As a side note, there are specific animations for confirm ( yes ), deny ( no ), and also for when a leader gives an order. 

There are several task binds, all available in the menu system under Setup | Controls | Orders from the main menu and under Controls | Orders in the ingame menu.

Bots will remember their last order if they decide to do something critical, like follow you if you have the flag or try to get your flag back if the enemy has it. Once that task is over they will go back to what they were doing. 

You can also do team specific votes, such as voting for a new leader. All of this is available in the in-game menu system.


Point Release / Mods
--------------------

The final point release should heading out soon. We need to do a bit of testing on things but it should be heading out of here in the near future. I recently set up a mailing list for mod teams to discuss code, etc and based on how busy I have been with Team Arena I have not had much time to devote to it. I have a pile of about 80 e-mails from mod authors wanting to join, I should get to that in the next day or so. I plan to try and get source to the mod teams that have releases pending on the point release a bit early so they can have their mods ready to go when the final point release hits. 

I also anticipate finally getting all the tool source out very soon as well. This has been a long time coming but will be worth it as it contains some new functionaly required for some of the new stuff. As far as Q3Radiant goes, I would excpect Timothee and crew to have the new features necessary implemented in GtkRadiant shortly after our release. Graeme is also going to release the roq encoder around that time so things will be nice and complete. 

















9.22.00 6:51pm
--------------
Mods for Quake 3 Arena will require a recompile for use with 1.25 and above as we have added in a lot of mod requested features which added trap calls and changed the event system a bit. I'll get the source posted asap so all the teams can get their new cuts up. Look for it in a day or two. This executable is essentially the same executable as Team Arena so once mods are up under 1.25 they will run fine under Team Arena as well. 





5.7.00 12:24pm
--------------
Game source for 1.17 is up. Tool source is pending as we are a little busy at the moment. It MIGHT make it tonight before I head home.






5.5.00 12:59am
--------------
I've updated the Macintosh 1.17 point release. Two things happened with it.

1. The installer seemed to expire between when I started it ( about a week ago, been running since ) and when I built the Mac install. Some people had issues running it getting an unregistered installation. I'm not sure why everyone did not see the problem ( it worked fine on several Mac's here ;-) In any event, we re-registered it and anyone who had those problems should not see them anymore.

2. There was a frame rate drop on Macintoshes, again only on a percentage of them which has been addressed. 

In other news, new game source for 1.17 should be out sometime this weekend, and I am hoping to get the tool source out at the same time.






5.3.00 2:33pm
-------------
We have just released a new point release for Quake 3 Arena, version 1.17.

This patch fixes a fairly serious security flaw in Quake 3 Arena. Internet
Security Systems identified the flaw and notified us with reproduction
details as well as an overview of the exploit. The basic nature of the
exploit is that malicious server operators could overwrite any file on a
client system. This type of thing is always possible with DLL based mods
( which is why we strongly recommend VM based mods ) but with this exploit,
it was possible within the VM system.

To help facilitate a rapid transition to the new codebase we have also
bumped the network protocol version. This means 1.17 is not network
compatibile with any prior version.

The install also includes all 3 PK3 files, because the original "pak1.pk3"
was not included in the final 1.16 release for Mac and Win32 builds. This
will address some pure server connection issues. You will have to have all 3
pak files present to connect to a pure server.

In addition to this security fix, we have also fixed the following:

- Callvote to single player game type causes the server to crash.
- Crash in bot initialization on some systems.






3.17.00 7:06pm
--------------
There is an update to the tools out on our ftp. It contains new executables for Q3Radiant, Q3Map, Q3Data, and the TexTool plugin. It is very hot off the presses so use at your own risk. The change log will be quite large and is not yet included but I wanted to get this out so people could start taking advantage of new plugins. Many thanks go out to Timothee Besset, The Curry Team, David Hyde, Jason Spencer, Jan Paul ( Mr. Elusive ), Eutectic, Maj, Paul Jaquays, and everyone taking part in the ongoing Radiant and Plugin department. The Gensurf and Curry plugins look fantastic as does the upcoming MGS plugin from Timothee. 

Some words of caution, brush primitives "should" work fine but they are as always subject to change. They are required for the new grouping to work, but I would not use them or the new grouping yet as both are very much under construction.

The filename is "Q3ToolSetup_Mar172000.exe"






3.16.00 11:56am
---------------
The game source for 1.16n is available on our ftp and should be appearing on mirrors soon. As with the previous source release this is a Win32 installation. 

The code should be compilable into vm's without Visual C headers this time around so lcc (included) is all you need.




3.15.00 10:02am
---------------
The 1.16 point release is done. It should start appearing on mirrors soon, in all three flavors. The release also contains the original player models done way back when for Xian, Carmack, Hellrot, Paul Jaquays, Willits, and Brandon James ( now at Rogue ). These are included in the PK3 file. Available separately are the Max files for each as well.

There were only a few changes between 1.16m and 1.16n, the readme details what was changed. I should get the code bundled up and out within a few days as well. 

Any problems with the release ( or the game in general ) need to be e-mailed to livehumanfeedback@idsoftware.com, this will ensure the issues get added to our bug database and looked at.

The Mod scene is pretty much exploding, I have a very long list of Mods to look at and play. A few issues have come up that are centered around Mod coding and requested features.

-Config files. The q3config.cfg file IS propogated to each mod directory as a set of defaults. If you want to use mod specific configurations, just use a yourmodname.cfg file and execute it at load time and save it out when appropriate.

-Server side DLL support for pure servers. This would allow pure servers to load DLL's on the server side only while keeping the clients pure. This will likely be possible in a future release.

-Client identification. Cheating is obviously a big issue. It seems that some people just cannot get over the fact that they suck at the game and have to cheat to try and make up for it :-) This along with abusive players has caused quite a few requests for the ability to generate a unique user ID based on the end users CD Key. This would allow servers to ban troublesome players or habitual cheaters. This method would not compromise the CD Key in any way but would provide a unique string that would identify a particular user irrespective of their user name, ip address and so on. Our current thought process is to implement a system very similar to caller ID. This would allow a server to be setup to accept only clients that provide their ID or accept all ( anonymous ) clients. Clients would be able to specify whether or not to provide their ID or be anonymous. Any feedback on this is welcome ( This is NOT in the game at this time but is under consideration )

Tools
-----
There should be a new release of the tools available within a few days as well. The editor is still undergoing quite a few changes but I want to get it out so people can work around the nVidia stipple slow down and take advantage of the new plugins that are about to hit the streets. Tool feedback still needs to go to tools@idsoftware.com







3.06.00 3:02pm
--------------
A new point release beta is out and on the FTP. We anticipate removing the beta tag in the very near future. We have been doing a lot of testing on connection issues, cheat preventions, auto-downloading as well as running a lot of the new mods through it. Things look good, some of the mods heading our way look fantastic!

This also contains a CTF version of Q3Tourney6 which is tons of fun for 2 on 2 CTF. 

One key thing is that when connecting to a pure server both sides will have to be using the latest point release as we updated the pak2.pk3. This is not much of an issue once this version propogates a bit but it is something to keep in mind.

There are 3 issues of note with this version ( 2 of them Linux only )

- ZFree errors, on some Linux systems you may see ZFree allocation errors. This happens mostly when fiddling with the mouse etc. during map loads. We are looking into this ( as is Loki ).
- Mods directory does not show mods ( Linux only )
- Starting a team game with bots does not automatically assign the player ( you ) to a team.

As before, please forward bug and other information to raduffy@idsoftware.com



2.21.00 11:23pm
---------------
New executables for the point release beta are on the FTP. 

-Zombie/Ghost unpure clients no longer remain connected.
-Recursive File System error corrected when running mods with logfile set to 1
-The Auto-download rate is controlled by 'sv_maxRate', specify this value in bytes per second. The maximum band rate caps out around 25K per second.






2.20.00 5:12pm
---------------
Point Release Stuff

There was a lot of new functionality added in the latest point release, primarily centered around mod development support. We are still sifting through all the feedback e-mail but here are some problems and solutions based on what we have found so far.

1. If yo