Name: Robert A. Duffy
Email: raduffy@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here are beta copies of the point release for Linux. They are on ftp.idsoftware.com and should appear on ftp.lokigames.com as well. 

idstuffquake3linuxlinuxq3a-1.27g-beta1.tar.gz
idstuffquake3linuxlinuxq3ded-1.27g-beta1.tar.gz

Those would be the standard + dedicated and dedicated only.

I am off on vacation starting Sunday for a week or so and will obviously be in-active in the mod forums. I do plan to get active once I get back. I've been looking at as many mods as possible lately, we are starting to ramp up on DOOM pretty quickly but I wanted to sneak some time to see what all was there. The Q3F stuff looks really nice and next month while I am visiting the Wolfenstein guys I hope to hook up with the Urban Terror guys just to see what all they have planned. WFA looks great and Rocket Arena is as usual sucking up a lot of playtime. There are some more single player things that look interesting as well. I still have about 300 to look at but that is all good stuff. 

A FAQ should be going up soon that provides some work arounds for Team Arena and the point release. All in all it has looked really good. We will be releasing a patch at some point to address anything serious that comes up and we also want to provide the ability to allow mod makers to reference an existing fs_game path for mod creation. This will allow mods to be based on Team Arena. 

I wish everyone a happy and safe holiday.






















Dec 21.2000 6.22pm
------------------

The 1.27 game source and the tool source has been put up on our ftp site. This game source contains prebuilt tools in the bin_nt directory but there is not yet a user friendly version of the tool installer done. A tool install that contains additional media for Team Arena creation, entity definitions etc. will be released shortly ( mid January-ish ). Timothee and his crew should be releasing GTKRadiant that WILL be user friendly soon ( next week as I hear it ).

The source for the tools is also available. Graeme is going to be releasing the ROQ endocer today or tomorrow I believe.  Enjoy.


1.27 Game Source

idstuffquake3sourceQ3A_TA_GameSource_127.exe

This is the combined source code for Quake III Arena and Quake III: Team Arena. It can be used to build the 1.27g point release or the Team Arena release. It contains buildable project files and all related game source code as well as prebuilt tool executables.



1.27 Tool Source

idstuffquake3sourceQ3A_ToolSource.exe

This contains the source code for the Quake III Arena and Quake III: Team Arena tools. It contains source code for Radiant, Q3Map, Q3Data, Q3Asm and related support files. It does NOT contain prebuilt executables or end user friendly gizmos.