
Name: Robert A. Duffy
Email: raduffy@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
May.19.01 am
------------
"Early next week". Did I say that ? The point release is coming, we continue to update and tweak things as well as fix some issues. Mod Authors have and have had the source etc and it is in the testing loop at Activision. Soon is the best I can say, but we hope this will address all of the cheats, hacks, adds a multitude of new things request wise, fixes lots of bugs etc. A Linux beta will be available right around the same time too as well as Mac.

I did not attend E3 this year but it looks like it went great. Lots of neat looking games from the look of the movies and the word back from everyone there.




May.04.01 8.45am
----------------

We will be releasing a point release beta early next week. This one has taken some time but it addresses quite a few things. Graeme has been very busy with the network stuff and net traffic is now being compressed at about 4:1, this should make a huge difference for modem players. There should be a substantial FPS boost for most people and there are a bunch of fixes/tweaks in place. This release will also contain an auto update system so you can check for new updates at any time. If you get the beta, the final will be offered via the auto update. This addresses all of the  cheats and hacks we know about as well. That is an ongoing battle. This point release will utilize a different protocol as a result of the new network compression.

At the same time, I will finally get the UI stuff release for mod teams. This will allow mod teams to distribute Team Arena style menus/scripts for Quake 3 only mods without violating the EULA.

There are some really nice looking mods going on right now, Urban Terror, Q3F, WFA, Annihilation, Navy Seals are all looking really good. Quake The Movie is also looking really really good, the guys at Tritin were kind enough to send us the first 13 or so minutes and it is amazing stuff. Overall the source changes mod teams will need to integrate are quite small.

Work progresses well on Q3A/TA, Wolf and DOOM.

