*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: jerry
Plan modified: Tue Jan 05 12:55:46 1999

Jerry O'Flaherty
Plan file update:  01-05-99

	Glad to be back from the holidays.  Had a great time off doing nothing.  Made a point of not doing a damn thing for two weeks.  It's actually harder than it seems.  Got cool shit for Christmas.

The projects are moving along.  The new team on DK are cranking hard and we are making some fantastic progress.  Andrew is doing all the things we've needed done for a while.  Obviously can't say too much on that gig.  The art is progressing.  We were 90% on the game art as of Christmas so the real work left is touchup, cleanup, some reworking where needed, and polish on all the things that aren't there yet.  Everyone is on it and it's looking kick-ass.
ANOX is looking as phenomenal as always.  Lee and the boys are doing a stellar job and the new levels they are doing will blow you away.  
Deus Ex is also cranking.  I'll go down there next week to check up on Jay and those boys.

Final thoughts:
	We have all work in the real world and know the way it works right?  If you are a good worker but have a shitty/overbearing/annoying/etc. personality no amount of good work will help you keep your job if you must interact with others.  If you are the nicest person in the world but your work is not up to snuff with what is expected you won't keep your job.  These are the realities of the world and industry.  I have NEVER in my life fired or let someone go because I don't like them.  I have worked with some people who are professional assholes and kept them around because of how good they are.  I have and will always tell people what the problem is before it ever gets to a point where their personality is counterproductive.  
	SO if I have let you go or fired you in the past it is not because I hate you or you didn't kiss my ass enough.  To say that is immature and simply a way of avoiding the reality of life and the workforce.  The reality would be that (A) Your talent wasn't up to snuff for where I want the department to be combined with lack of good work ethic.  (B)You were talented but not in an area that best fits with my long-term view of the department. (C) We have become overstaffed by talented people and so my job of cutting was reduced to who can and will be able to do the most for the department.  
	That's the reality.  Advancement in my art department is aside from any personal opinion I have of you.  It is completely about your talent and willingness to advance yourself in all things art that gets you further with me.  Of course not being an asshole helps but isn't a prerequisite.  

That's all for now.