Login: robh           			Name: Rob Heironimus
Project:

Dr. Dew: 50/50 blend of Dr. Pepper and Mountain Dew

Plan:
09-24-99
--------
Ok, so I'm sitting here, and I was just about to make this plan update about
how I went to see They Might Be Giants this past weekend and how I ended up
missing the chance to talk to this girl that was standing next to us while 
waiting in line.  I was just about to go into describing how she had short
black hair and a couple lip piercings when I sat back and thought, "What the
hell am I doing?"  Am I really at the point where I need to use a .plan file
to somehow try and correct mistakes made in light of my own social ineptitude?
Sigh.  I guess my point is this:  if you have a social life and you value it,
do not become a game developer.  If you don't have a social life but plan on
getting one, do not become a game developer.  If you like sheep, well...just
keep that shit to yourself.  You'll make more friends that way.  Uhh...What
was I talking about?  Bah...

Once again on an unrelated note, I'm becoming very concerned about Sean's
mental health as of late.  He seems to be going through some form of delusional
episode that's manifesting iteself in the mindless ramblings of his .plan
file.  To think that I would try and put off a rematch of Re-Volt is simply
ludicrous.  I'm even beginning to doubt his exploits at this so-called 
'Place for Pancakes House,' or whatever he calls it.  Sean, you need help.
Seriously.  I'm worried about you.

Oh, and the game's going great...



09/10/99
--------
I'd just like to make a short announcement about the direction we'll be
taking with the musical score on Opposing Force.  We've dropped the 
ambient-techno-trance-style music of the original game, and have decided
to go with 100% hardcore beat box, featuring the vocal talents of Randy 
"Grandmaster Phat" Pitchford.  It's widely known that Randy was a talented
magician before entering the ranks of game development, but very few people
are aware of the fact that he was actually the fourth member of the popular
'80s group "Fat Boys."  We realize this is a bold move for the type of
game we're making, and that many people may disagree with such a drastic
change in genre.  However, I assure you that once you've heard Randy's dope
beats in the context of the game, you'll want to bust out your Members Only(tm)
jacket and your parachute pants every time you fire up Half-Life.  As a 
testament to the viability of beat box in action games, the one and only
Valve Software is rumored to be featuring the beat box grooves of their own
Gary McTaggart on the upcoming release of Team Fortress 2.  


On an unrelated note, Sean failed to mention in his uncalled-for slight of my
Re-Volt skills that his victory came long before I achieved the level of 
"Genuine Ass Kicker" in the game.  I can assure everyone that I truly have 'da
mad skillz necessary to take down anyone here in the office in a straight-up
match of Re-Volt.  And, being the modest guy that I am, I won't even mention
the superiority I've established in Worms Armageddon.

Silly coders... 

