Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Hmmm...did he, or didn't he???

Joe Siegler forwarded the following link to me:

http://sports.yahoo.com/mlb/news/ap/20011011/ap-selig.html

The article covers several comments made by Bud Selig, the Commissioner of Major League Baseball, during an interview or press conference (wasn't clear which) on Thursday, October 11, 2001.  He talks about Barry Bonds, the contraction debate, and a few more baseball issues.  However, there was one bit in particular that caught Joe's eye and prompted him to forward the article to my attention.  It's a quote from Bud Selig, where he says this:

"There have been some interesting suggestions made, one of which is that the league that wins the All-Star game would have the advantage in the World Series.  So, this winter we'll spend a lot of time talking about that, and yes, we will make some changes."

Whoa.  Holy Shatner, Batman!

Okay, I'm fine, no need for smelling salts.  Obviously, this came as quite a surprise to me.  Why?  Well, if you've read my previous .plan updates, you might have seen one that I posted back on July 10, 2001.  That update presented a proposal that would make the All-Star Game and interleague play more exciting.  Here's what I said:

"The solution I propose is simple:  make the interleague games and All-Star Game actually mean something in the season which they are played.  Whichever league wins most of the interleague games would win the honor of home field advantage for their league's champion during the World Series.  If the interleague games are evenly split, then the All-Star Game would serve as the tiebreaker."

I posted the same article to the general Major League Baseball website's fan forum.  In fact, a couple of years ago I actually typed up a letter containing the same proposal and mailed it to him.  (I would have e-mailed the proposal, but the MLB website only lists contact addresses for website issues.  The only way I had to get the proposal to the Commissioner's office was to physically mail it in.)

I have no idea if Bud Selig actually read my suggestions.  His comments only addressed the All-Star Game.  It would be nice if he would address interleague play as well.  If he is, he's not talking about it yet.  I'll keep my fingers crossed for now.  Still, it's exciting to think that he might have actually read what I sent.  It's even more exciting to imagine that he might agree with some of it.

If you have any ideas on the matter, or if you agree with the proposal I sent in, please do something about it.  The time is now - the floor is open, and he's apparently receptive to input.  Fire up your word processor and write to him.  Send him something, even if it's a straight printout of this .plan file with your signature and a "Cool Idea!" remark written on it.  Here's his contact info:


Allan H. (Bud) Selig, Commissioner
The Office of the Commissioner of Baseball
245 Park Avenue, 31st floor
New York, NY 10167

Phone: (212) 931-7800


If you do send something to him, I'd like to hear about it.  I may even post quotes from your letters in my next .plan update, assuming that I get anything from which I can quote. :-)







-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-