Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Melange:  Good For What Ails Ya....

Some random thoughts on turning 38:


What the hell happened to 37?
...or 36 or 35, for that matter?
Like wine, people get better with age.  Unlike wine, they don't necessarily smell better.
Speed Racer is still just as cool as he was back in 1969.
If I could go back to age 16 and try some of the things I know now, I'd probably get arrested.
Even if you hardly ever use it, the back part of a truck is the most useful thing you could ever own.
Squirrels are more persistent than any other creature on the planet.
Pocky rocks.  Pocky for Men rocks even harder.


The best news I've received recently is that I may not be allergic to corn after all.  My allergist had me go through an "elimination diet" test after my RAST (blood) tests showed possibly positive reactions to corn and a couple of other things.  For five straight, I had to abstain from anything that had any corn, beef, dairy, egg, or wheat in it.  Basically, that meant eating a lot of rice milk on top of Rice Chex or Cream of Rice, or eating straight fruits & vegetables, with the occasional bit of pork or fish to reduce the monotony.  After that, I did a test that involved what could only be described as a binge on the subject food for one meal.  Case in point:  for corn, I had one meal that consisted of two corn tortillas with corn oil margarine, covered in Karo corn syrup.  I did this for each of the five test foods.

Fortunately, the worst reactions I had were a tiny bit of itchiness around the mouth after the corn test and a little bit of nausea after the milk test (2 pints in an hour on an empty stomach will do that to anyone, IMHO).  The allergist said that these were "inconclusive," and asked me to run them again.  I plan on doing that after the holidays are over, but until then I'm considering myself to be on a reprieve from any food allergy considerations.

As for the rest of the health picture...well, let's put it this way.  In addition to today (19 November) being my 38th birthday, it's also the 3rd anniversary of the day that I found out I had gallstones.  It's been 3 years now, and I'm still not healed to the point where I can get off the damned pain medication (Talwin), antacids (Nexium), or bile fluid thinner (Actigall).  It seems to me like George has wanted to shoot someone over all of the problems I've had recovering/healing.  I wouldn't mind him feeling that way, if he'd just stop pointing the damned gun in my direction.

I've discussed pain management therapy with my GI doctor, and he said there is a chance it would allow me to finally dispense with having to take Talwin three times a day.  As soon as my wife and I get things sorted out insurance-wise, I plan on pursuing this option, or at least getting more input on it.  I've never looked into this kind of thing before, so I have no idea as to what's involved.  Whatever it takes, though.  Whatever it takes.

Before we end, a couple of anime quick hits:


Hand Maid May - Good stuff.  Funny as hell.  Actually has a plot that's worth following.  If you can get yourself past the ecchi stuff, you're in for a good show.  Favorite episodes are 7 and 11.
Excel Saga - I've only seen the first 3 episodes of this, but I can tell this is going to be one hell of a weird ride.  Must find more fansubs of it.
Gundam stuff - The dub job ruined things for me on the original Mobile Suit Gundam series (a.k.a. "First Gundam").  However, the dub of the 08th MS Team series actually has redeeming value.  The first 2 DVDs of it were great.  I only wish we could have had as good a job done on Mobile Suit Gundam: I only have DVD 1, and I don't think I'll be buying the rest.  I'll wait until Bandai or someone else in the future can clear or rebuild the original Japanese soundtracks.
Cowboy Bebop - Been watching this on Cartoon Network's "Adult Swim."  Impressive.  I'd buy the boxed set right now if I could afford it.  Can't wait to see part 2 of "The Real Folk Blues" this coming Sunday.
FLCL and Tenshi ni Narumon! - Both scheduled for initial DVD release in January.  Get your pre-orders in today.  Both are very, very good.



And now, finally, your moment of Blatant Plug Zen:

http://www.mp3.com/ljfnord








-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-