Login: ljackson       			Name: Lee Jackson
Directory: /usr/home/ljackson       	Shell: 
Plan:
Mon 10-06-1997 3:18:39 am

I sent a copy of Shadow Warrior off to Dr. Demento on Friday.  Here's
hoping he likes it.

Spent some time this weekend setting up my kid's new system.  It's a
Zenon K6-200, 32MB RAM, 2.5gig HD, 16X CD system with an ATI 3D
Xpression video card and Win95 OSR2.  Runs quite well, and contrary
to popular belief, it plays Quake (and Shadow Warrior) without a
hitch.  Besides, it was cheap ($955 including shipping), and we
couldn't afford much.  The only drawback is that my 486DX/4-100 is
now the slowest system in the house.  Sigh.

Also spent some time this weekend searching for sample CDs for use
in the Kurzweil K2500RS.  I think I found some at our local
pro-audio UltraMegaSuperStore (Mars), which I am going to try and
drag Paul out to on Monday for a listen and maybe a purchase.
Regardless of what we get, I'm hoping to use it on both Prey and
Duke Nukem Forever.


Date: Thu 10-02-1997 Time: 12:35:45 am

I'm spending some time listening to CDs lately, trying to purge my mind of
all of the oriental music I've fed it over the past year.  I need to get
some serious shredding in there in its place, so I'm listening to some of
the same things I listened to during Duke 3D development, along with a few
new things.  

As I write this, Pantera's "Cowboys From Hell" is playing, and several
others are cued up.  This list includes CDs from Tool, more Pantera,
Ministry, Megadeth, and even more Pantera.  There's a common thread there,
but I just can't seem to figure out what it is...

Gotta take a minute to hype something.  If you're ever in the market for a
pair of powered speakers, for whatever reason, get yourself a pair of Event
20/20bas studio monitors.  They run around $795 a pair, which may seem like
a small fortune, but that's actually cheap compared to other pro-audio
speakers.

Listening to CDs on these things is downright scary.  These monitors
reproduce so cleanly that, IMHO, sitting between them is almost a religious
experience.  Everything, warts and all, comes through in pristine fashion.
I find myself spending more time being in awe of the sound than I do
actually paying attention to the music.  I hate to see how I'll respond to
other speakers after I've really gotten used to these.

Nothing replaces a good pair of ears, and while mine are by no means
golden, a set of monitors like these certainly can't hurt.  Hopefully,
they'll be a big asset when it comes time to do sounds and mixdowns for
Duke Nukem Forever and Prey.


Date: 09-26-1997  Time:  0:08:50

Another Balls of Steel recording session is done, and the files are out the
door. Just a few final additions to the voices prior to Wildfire finishing
up the project.

I've yanked the MIDI file from my .plan to prevent user irritation. It may
have sounded cool at first, but trust me - you'll get tired of it if you
hear it enough.

Looks like I'll be keeping my work-related info here on 3dportal.com for
the time being. My ISP is setting something up for me to post personal drek
on. We'll see how it works.

Still problems with the AWE64 - there's a nasty hiss coming from the right
channel.  No hiss from the left.  Might be something in my wiring, but the
only way to tell is to yank it and replace it with one of the others that
Creative Labs sent us.  That may get done tomorrow.


Date: 09-24-1997  Time: 22:07:00

Thanks to Brad Wernicke, my finger info is back up, albeit on 3dportal.com
instead of my ISP. I'm still trying to get my ISP to solve their problem.


Date: 09-18-1997  Time: 22:27:00

Shadow Warrior has been sent to NARAS. Maybe that'll get them moving on
adding a couple of multimedia categories to the Grammy awards. The only way
to get their attention is to send stuff in.

Finally managed to get an AWE64 Gold in my MIDI machine. Had a hell of a
time doing it, due to a problem with Windows 95's MIDI subsystem. Turns out
that Win95 won't let you have more than 10 MIDI devices activated, but it
will let you go ahead and install more than 10 without saying a thing about
it. That is, until you try and access anything that involves MIDI, when it
gives you GPFs in MMSYSTEM.DLL. I sure hope they fix this in Win98.

In case you're wondering, 8 of the MIDI ports are part of the Music
Quest/Opcode 8Port/SE rackmount MIDI patch bay, and one was a virtual piano
driver that Cakewalk installed. That left 1 port, and the AWE64 tried to
install 3. Had to disable the 8Port/SE, reinstall the AWE64, disable 2 of
its ports (FM and external), then re-enable the 8Port/SE. Everything works
now.


Date: 09-17-1997  Time: 18:36:01

I've been back in the office since Monday, basically getting things back in
shape to work on again. No really new developments yet, but a couple of
things to note.

First, Paul and I had our first discussion on sounds and music for Prey.
We're still in the early, early, early planning stages, but at least we're
in sync now.

Second, it looks like I might be doing one last round of work for Balls of
Steel. Nothing big - probably just beefing up the voice content a bit.

Finally, now that Shadow Warrior has hit the shelves, I can finally talk
about the "secret track" on the CD. If you play track 14, you will hear a
song called, appropriately enough, "Lo Wang's Rap". Enough said. 


Date: 09-12-1997  Time: 12:53:07

I'm nearing the end of my first vacation in ages, and it's been a pretty
horrible one. Not even halfway through it, I catch a case of acute
bronchitis from my wife. Today marks the first day since the 5th that I've
been able to get out of bed and do anything productive.

Assuming that my lungs clear themselves out this weekend, I'll be back to
work on Monday the 15th. I have a lot of things lined up for when I get
back - preliminary work on Duke Nukem Forever's music and sounds,
discussions with the Prey team, and a million other things that have been
put off until I finished my work on Shadow Warrior and Balls of Steel.

Finally, I'm planning on doing something totally futile. I want to submit
Shadow Warrior to NARAS (the Grammy Awards people - see personal info
below) for nomination consideration. It has a snowball's chance in hell of
actually getting nominated for anything, but I hope to at least make it
appear on the ballots.

Why bother to do this? Well, there isn't a Multimedia category in the
Grammy Awards yet. IMHO, there should be. By submitting Shadow Warrior,
I'll hopefully stir things up a bit and get the necessary committees to
look into the situation.

That's all for this go-around. Watch this space for updates.

(This finger page is a bow to those on IRC who've said I should set one
up.)

PERSONAL INFO (for those who care)
==================================

 Name:                 Lee Jackson

 Date of Birth :       November 19, 1963
 Place of Birth:       Austin, Texas (USA)

 Current Position:     Music and Sound Director, Apogee Software,
                       including the 3D Realms Entertainment and
                       Pinball Wizards divisions

 Music/Sound Credits:  Apogee Fanfare (current version)
                       Rise of the Triad (LC, VPT)
                       Stargunner (SC, cinematic FX, VPT (music))
                       Duke Nukem 3D (CC, CFX, VPT)
                       Duke Nukem 3D - Plutonium Pak/Atomic Edition
                        (SC, LFX, VPT)
                       Shadow Warrior (SC, LFX, VPT)
                       Balls of Steel (CFX, VPT)

 Current Projects:     Duke Nukem Forever
                       Prey

key:  CC  == contributing composer
      LC  == lead composer
      SC  == sole composer
      CFX == contributing sound effects
      LFX == lead sound effects
      VPT == voice performance talent (did a voice heard in game)

As you can see from my credits above, I work for Apogee Software. I began
on May 10, 1993, as a Technical Support Representative. I was in the tech
room for over 2 1/2 years, but on January 15, 1996, I became Apogee's/3D
Realms' first Music and Sound Director. According to Joe Siegler, I have
the privilege of becoming the first person ever promoted to development
from tech support. I'm honored .

I accepted in mid-1997 into the National Academy of Recording Arts and
Sciences (NARAS) as a full voting member, based on my work for Duke Atomic
and Stargunner. NARAS is the organization that gives out the Grammy Awards
every year.

My job responsibilities include composing music and designing sounds for
in-house games, as well as for some done by outside development teams. I
also coordinate voice talent and direct voice recording sessions.

George Broussard would tell you that I'm also quite good at spending the
company's money on gear and software. I keep telling him to shop and
compare - he'd soon see that I'm a cheap date.