Login: ljackson       			Name: Lee Jackson
Directory: /usr/home/ljackson       	Services: FTP
Plan:
Mon 11-17-1997 4:17:34 am

I'm back, attempting to recover from the events of this past
weekend.  What an experience - my first time to march with the
University of Texas Longhorn Alumni Band (LHAB), my first time to
march at all in over 13 years, and I decide to attend in a year
that would have frozen me solid given a chance.  Don't get me
wrong - it was a great time, and I'll probably do it again next
year.  However, no matter what the weather forecast says, I'm
bringing gloves next time.  LHAB calls itself the "Blast from the
Past."  A lot of us were calling ourselves the "Arctic Blast from
the Past" after this weekend.

I went to Austin on Friday for rehearsal and learned my first
lesson that night - the flag section doesn't show up until
Saturday.  There were only 2 of us there that night, but our
numbers grew to around 34 or 35 on Saturday.

Since the game began at 1:00pm Saturday, and we had only one day
to learn the show (Friday was a playing rehearsal only, hence, no
flags), the rehearsal started at 7:00am with check-in at 6:00am.
Overnight, an arctic front blew through, bringing freezing rain
and strong winds.  The temperature was only supposed to get down
into the mid-40s (F), but it decided to drop further than that.
It was 32 degrees F at 6:00am, wet, and windy.  It stayed that
way all through rehearsal and kept raining until halftime.  When
kickoff finally rolled around, the temperature was 36, with a
wind chill of 17.

Now, for those of you from northern climes, this isn't much.
However, this is downright brutal for a 4th generation native
Texan like myself.  Especially when you listen to the weatherman
and don't bring hand protection.  After 3 hours of rehearsal
holding a 10-foot-tall flag in sub-freezing wind chill and rain,
my fingers hurt like they've never hurt before.  They're still
sort of stiff, but they're recovering.

Still, when you disregard the weather, it was a lot of fun.  I
met up with people I hadn't seen in ages, got to relive my days
as a member of Longhorn Band, found out that marching a halftime
show is like riding a bicycle (once you've done it enough, you
never forget how), and generally had one helluva good time.  Oh,
yeah - the Longhorns won the game, too. 

Now, it's back to the Kurzweil and finishing up the Mind Control
CDs.  That is, if my fingers will ever warm up....


Thu 11-13-1997 17:02:30

Things are once again moving along, after a bit of a delay. The
Kurzweil developed a bad SIMM which caused corruption problems
with some of the samples I was trying to load from the Noise
Loops and Mind Control CDs.  Fortunately, that's all fixed now.

In response to all of the mail I received about CD grabber
software, I went out and found one that actually works with the
Plextor 4Plex I have in my MIDI/Sound Forge machine.  It does the
job, but it isn't much faster than the other method that everyone
was complaining about.  It also isn't any more reliable - all my
attempts to use jitter correction give me waveforms that look
like The Blob sat on top of them and sound even worse.  Before
any of you write and tell me to get a better CD drive, be advised
that nothing else gets upgraded until I can convince George that
it's time to get a new computer for the studio.  Sigh.

Quick personal note - if the Texas/Kansas game is televised this
weekend, and if by some miracle they happen to put on any of the
halftime show, be looking for a roundish, bearded fellow carrying
one of the 10-foot-tall flags.  That'll be yours truly.  I'm
going to march in a halftime show for the first time in 13 years
this Saturday, as part of the Longhorn Alumni Band.  Wish me luck
- gametime is 1:00pm Central.


Mon 11-03-1997 22:55:49

I've had a few e-mails about how I'm pulling audio off of CDs.
People have said that I should be using a program to pull the
data directly, such as CDDA or something similar.  There's a
good reason why I don't do this - it's unreliable on my systems.

For some reason, these programs have never got along with my
CD drives (a Plextor 4Plex SCSI and a Smart & Friendly CD-R
2000).  They'll work sometimes, but other times the programs will
either a) fail to recognize the drive, b) pull nothing but
zeros, or c) pull data with gaps/pops/snorks/whatever.  So,
I've given these puppies up for lent.

Instead, I use the Toslink digital output of the harman/kardon
FL8400 CD Player I have in the studio.  This pipes the data
directly from the CDs through a fiber-optic link, into a Core
Sound DFT (digital format translator).  Here, it is converted
into S/PDIF coaxial signals, still digital, and sent into the
digital input of my I/O CardD.  From start to finish, the data
stays digital - no analog translation or other re-recording.

I just wanted to clear that up before the pro audio community
decided to have me flogged.


Sat 11-01-1997 23:27:23 pm

Noise Loops and Mind Control have arrived.  Good stuff, but with
one small problem that we knew about in advance.  They're audio
CDs - not formatted for any sampler and not in WAV/AIF format.
So, job one is to massage them into useable format.

This isn't as easy as it sounds. First, you have to pull the data
from the CDs. Starting with the Noise Loops CD, I actually play
the data out through a fiber optic port on the back of the
player, route it through a fiber to coaxial converter, and then
record it through the I/O CardD into SAW Plus. Depending on how
you do it, this gives you some rather huge files that need to be
split.

Sound Forge gets the next job - yanking all of the usable audio
from the files. In this case, I wound up with 224 files. I ran
these files through a filter to remove all of the frequencies
below 20Hz (speakers can't reproduce frequencies below that level
anyway), trimmed the silence, and saved the filtered files.
Finally, I burned a CD with both the filtered files
(uncompressed, ready-to-use) and the unfiltered files (compressed
with WaveZIP - had to in order to get them onto one CD).

After all of this, I started playing with them a bit.  I first
tried loading them into SAW Plus and sliding things around a bit.
It worked, but it seemed like it would be a lot more efficient to
have them available for use by the Kurzweil K2500RS.  So, I tried
loading a track's worth of the 100 beat-per-minute WAVs into the
2500, making a custom keymap (after reconsulting the manuals and
training video, just in case), and saving them as a "program"
that the 2500 can reload at any time.  Success.  They're huge (a
program containing all of the 100bps WAVs takes up 50+ megs), but
they work.

So, now I am finishing up making K2500 programs out of the WAV
files from the single Noise Loops CD.  I have three more of these
to go, for the Mind Control collection.  It's going to take a
long time to finish this up, but once I'm done, I'll have a
really powerful set of samples ready to use at a moment's notice.


Sun 10-26-1997 2:06:47 am

Our copy of Opcode's fusion:VOCODE package arrived.  It rocks
unbelievably hard.  Exceedingly strongly recommended, unless
you're a competitor of ours:  in that case, it sucks - don't
buy it - you don't need it, trust me!!! (evil grin>

Spent most of the week working on Prey stuff, with a bit of
test work for DNF.  They asked me for a few WAVs to test
out some features, so I obliged.

My alma mater (University of Texas at Austin) has a football
team with a serious problem - they can't get their quarterbacks
to think under pressure to save their lives.  Geez, I hope they
do better when I go down there to march with Longhorn Alumni Band
at the halftime of the Kansas game.


Fri 10-17-1997 5:43:41 am

An uneventful week has passed, except for my coming down sick
again this Wednesday.  Don't know if it was a reprise of what hit
the family earlier or some new bug flying in for a visit.
Probably the latter, since I seem to be mostly over it.

Kurzweil released a new flash ROM (v2.52) for the K2500RS, which
includes among a few bug fixes a feature called KB3 mode.  In
short, this turns your K2500 into a Hammond B3 organ, with full
drawbar functionality.  You've heard a B3 before if you've ever
listened to any rock music from the late 60s or early 70s,
especially "A Whiter Shade of Pale".  Good stuff.  If there is
any chance of working this into DNF, I'm going to try.

Been looking at another potential plug-in for Sound Forge.  This
time, it's from Opcode .
It's a vocoder that looks pretty cool, and has a lot of potential
for use in Prey (and maybe even DNF).  If you're interested,
check out the page, and then check out their dealers:  the price
that Opcode is selling it for direct is about $40 more than the
dealer price.

Finally, some folks have been asking me to plug their sites or
products here.  Sorry, but that's not my style.  I may talk about
some of the stuff I use or am looking at, but these things are
almost always either currently being used in the studio or will
soon be used.  Either that, or they're on the wish list.  I make
very few exceptions to this:  the only one so far was to announce
the fact that my kid's system was moving up in the world.  For
the most part, though, unless it's something that I use (or am
going to use) in the execution of my job, don't expect to see it
here.

For those of you who really want to know what I do in fact use,
hold tight - I'm working on rewriting my web site and will
include a complete list of hardware and software.


Fri 10-10-1997 5:40:34 am

Once again, it's way too early (or way too late, depending on
your perspective), and I'm editing my .plan file.  I have no idea
why:  it just seemed like something I should do.

Paul and I hit Mars (the music store, not the planet) and demoed
a few sample/loop CDs. We found a couple that we really liked
from Voice Crystal, but
they were temporarily out of stock.  Paul plans on hitting their
web site when he gets a chance.  The CDs in question are "Mind
Control" and "Noise Loops".

Big dealings have begun for a bit of music in Duke Nukem Forever.
I won't say exactly what they are, because (1) they might not
come through, and (2) I don't want to spoil the surprise if they
do come through.  Don't send me e-mail asking what the dealings
are, because I'll most likely just route the mail to /dev/null
and give you a link here
instead of answering.  Just watch this space - that's all for now.


Mon 10-06-1997 3:18:39 am

I sent a copy of Shadow Warrior off to Dr. Demento on Friday.
Here's hoping he likes it.

Spent some time this weekend setting up my kid's new system.
It's a Zenon K6-200, 32MB RAM, 2.5gig HD, 16X CD system with an
ATI 3D Xpression video card and Win95 OSR2.  Runs quite well, and
contrary to popular belief, it plays Quake (and Shadow Warrior)
without a hitch.  Besides, it was cheap ($955 including
shipping), and we couldn't afford much.  The only drawback is
that my 486DX/4-100 is now the slowest system in the house.
Sigh.

Also spent some time this weekend searching for sample CDs for
use in the Kurzweil K2500RS.  I think I found some at our local
pro-audio UltraMegaSuperStore (Mars), which I am going to try and
drag Paul out to on Monday for a listen and maybe a purchase.
Regardless of what we get, I'm hoping to use it on both Prey and
Duke Nukem Forever.


Date:  Thu 10-02-1997 Time:  12:35:45 am

I'm spending some time listening to CDs lately, trying to purge
my mind of all of the oriental music I've fed it over the past
year.  I need to get some serious shredding in there in its
place, so I'm listening to some of the same things I listened to
during Duke 3D development, along with a few new things.

As I write this, Pantera's "Cowboys From Hell" is playing, and
several others are cued up.  This list includes CDs from Tool,
more Pantera, Ministry, Megadeth, and even more Pantera.  There's
a common thread there, but I just can't seem to figure out what
it is...

Gotta take a minute to hype something.  If you're ever in the
market for a pair of powered speakers, for whatever reason, get
yourself a pair of Event 20/20bas studio monitors.  They run
around $795 a pair, which may seem like a small fortune, but
that's actually cheap compared to other pro-audio speakers.

Listening to CDs on these things is downright scary.  These
monitors reproduce so cleanly that, IMHO, sitting between them is
almost a religious experience.  Everything, warts and all, comes
through in pristine fashion.  I find myself spending more time
being in awe of the sound than I do actually paying attention to
the music.  I hate to see how I'll respond to other speakers
after I've really gotten used to these.

Nothing replaces a good pair of ears, and while mine are by no
means golden, a set of monitors like these certainly can't hurt.
Hopefully, they'll be a big asset when it comes time to do sounds
and mixdowns for Duke Nukem Forever and Prey.


Date:  09-26-1997 Time:  0:08:50

Another Balls of Steel recording session is done, and the files
are out the door.  Just a few final additions to the voices prior
to Wildfire finishing up the project.

I've yanked the MIDI file from my .plan to prevent user
irritation.  It may have sounded cool at first, but trust me -
you'll get tired of it if you hear it enough.

Looks like I'll be keeping my work-related info here on
3dportal.com for the time being.  My ISP is setting something up
for me to post personal drek on.  We'll see how it works.

Still problems with the AWE64 - there's a nasty hiss coming from
the right channel.  No hiss from the left.  Might be something in
my wiring, but the only way to tell is to yank it and replace it
with one of the others that Creative Labs sent us.  That may get
done tomorrow.


Date:  09-24-1997 Time:  22:07:00

Thanks to Brad Wernicke, my finger info is back up, albeit on
3dportal.com instead of my ISP.  I'm still trying to get my ISP
to solve their problem.


Date:  09-18-1997 Time:  22:27:00

Shadow Warrior has been sent to NARAS.  Maybe that'll get them
moving on adding a couple of multimedia categories to the Grammy
awards.  The only way to get their attention is to send stuff in.

Finally managed to get an AWE64 Gold in my MIDI machine.  Had a
hell of a time doing it, due to a problem with Windows 95's MIDI
subsystem.  Turns out that Win95 won't let you have more than 10
MIDI devices activated, but it will let you go ahead and install
more than 10 without saying a thing about it.  That is, until you
try and access anything that involves MIDI, when it gives you
GPFs in MMSYSTEM.DLL.  I sure hope they fix this in Win98.

In case you're wondering, 8 of the MIDI ports are part of the
Music Quest/Opcode 8Port/SE rackmount MIDI patch bay, and one was
a virtual piano driver that Cakewalk installed.  That left 1
port, and the AWE64 tried to install 3.  Had to disable the
8Port/SE, reinstall the AWE64, disable 2 of its ports (FM and
external), then re-enable the 8Port/SE.  Everything works now.


Date:  09-17-1997 Time:  18:36:01

I've been back in the office since Monday, basically getting
things back in shape to work on again.  No really new
developments yet, but a couple of things to note.

First, Paul and I had our first discussion on sounds and music
for Prey.  We're still in the early, early, early planning
stages, but at least we're in sync now.

Second, it looks like I might be doing one last round of work for
Balls of Steel.  Nothing big - probably just beefing up the voice
content a bit.

Finally, now that Shadow Warrior has hit the shelves, I can
finally talk about the "secret track" on the CD.  If you play
track 14, you will hear a song called, appropriately enough, "Lo
Wang's Rap".  Enough said.  


Date:  09-12-1997 Time:  12:53:07

I'm nearing the end of my first vacation in ages, and it's been a
pretty horrible one.  Not even halfway through it, I catch a case
of acute bronchitis from my wife.  Today marks the first day
since the 5th that I've been able to get out of bed and do
anything productive.

Assuming that my lungs clear themselves out this weekend, I'll be
back to work on Monday the 15th.  I have a lot of things lined up
for when I get back - preliminary work on Duke Nukem Forever's
music and sounds, discussions with the Prey team, and a million
other things that have been put off until I finished my work on
Shadow Warrior and Balls of Steel.

Finally, I'm planning on doing something totally futile.  I want
to submit Shadow Warrior to NARAS (the Grammy Awards people - see
personal info below) for nomination consideration.  It has a
snowball's chance in hell of actually getting nominated for
anything, but I hope to at least make it appear on the ballots.

Why bother to do this?  Well, there isn't a Multimedia category
in the Grammy Awards yet.  IMHO, there should be.  By submitting
Shadow Warrior, I'll hopefully stir things up a bit and get the
necessary committees to look into the situation.

That's all for this go-around.  Watch this space for updates.

(This finger page is a bow to those on IRC who've said I should
set one up.)

PERSONAL INFO (for those who care)
==================================

 Name:                 Lee Jackson

 Date of Birth :       November 19, 1963
 Place of Birth:       Austin, Texas (USA)

 Current Position:     Music and Sound Director, Apogee Software,
                       including the 3D Realms Entertainment and
                       Pinball Wizards divisions

 Music/Sound Credits:  Apogee Fanfare (current version)
                       Rise of the Triad (LC, VPT)
                       Stargunner (SC, cinematic FX, VPT (music))
                       Duke Nukem 3D (CC, CFX, VPT)
                       Duke Nukem 3D - Plutonium Pak/Atomic Edition
                        (SC, LFX, VPT)
                       Shadow Warrior (SC, LFX, VPT)
                       Balls of Steel (CFX, VPT)

 Current Projects:     Duke Nukem Forever
                       Prey

key:  CC  == contributing composer
      LC  == lead composer
      SC  == sole composer
      CFX == contributing sound effects
      LFX == lead sound effects
      VPT == voice performance talent (did a voice heard in game)

As you can see from my credits above, I work for Apogee Software.
I began on May 10, 1993, as a Technical Support Representative.
I was in the tech room for over 2 1/2 years, but on January 15,
1996, I became Apogee's/3D Realms' first Music and Sound
Director.  According to Joe Siegler, I have the privilege of
becoming the first person ever promoted to development from tech
support.  I'm honored .

I accepted in mid-1997 into the National Academy of Recording
Arts and Sciences (NARAS) as a full voting member, based on my
work for Duke Atomic and Stargunner.  NARAS is the organization
that gives out the Grammy Awards every year.

My job responsibilities include composing music and designing
sounds for in-house games, as well as for some done by outside
development teams.  I also coordinate voice talent and direct
voice recording sessions.

George Broussard would tell you that I'm also quite good at
spending the company's money on gear and software.  I keep
telling him to shop and compare - he'd soon see that I'm a cheap
date.  

^Z
	
    