Account Name:  Lee Jackson
Email address: leej@3drealms.com
----------
Obligatory Post-E3 Report

It's good to be back, etc. ad nauseum.  Yes, E3 is over, and I'm posting the same "gee, that was fun (but tiring), let's do that again next year" .plan file update that everyone else is.  You've most likely read what everyone else has said first, so I won't repeat things here.

To sum my own trip up, I saw what I needed to see - I think.  Who knows in that huge thing?  Anyway, I hit several booths, notably Creative Labs, Cakewalk, and Dolby Labs, along with way too many others to mention.  It didn't really do me much good to look at other games, since I'd be looking at them for their sounds and music, and it was impossible to hear much of anything in that noisy place.

I'd like to put in a request for anyone in the sound card industry to try and make it to E3 next year.  I only saw two such displays:  Creative Labs, and Orchid (who completely ignored me - thanks, guys).  Supposedly, Turtle Beach was there, but I'll be damned if I could find them, and I walked the entire floor of that place on several occasions.  You guys want to know why Creative Labs currently dominates the industry?  This is one reason, right here - there are certainly others, but this is one of them.

This wasn't my first trip to Atlanta, but it was the first one during which I spent any real amount of time indoors.  My first one was as a member of the Nighthawks Drum & Bugle Corps in 1984 - we marched down Peachtree Street during the 4th of July parade, marched in Stone Mountain's parade on the same day, played at Six Flags on another, and played at the opening of some huge upscale mall during a fireworks display.  All in all, I'd say it was cooler outside back then than it was inside most places this time around.

If anyone from Atlanta's hotel and convention industry is reading this, tell everyone else there to get a clue about the proper uses of air conditioning!!!  There seemed to be two standard settings for cooling in that town - almost (but not quite) cool, and bone-chilling cold.  For "Bob"'s sake, I didn't even sweat as much during Longhorn Band auditions in 1981 (on Astroturf and in 100+ degrees) as I did during E3!  It made me long for the cool August noontimes of my youth in Houston (sarcasm mode off).






INSERT SHASH HERE