Account Name:  Lee Jackson
Email address: leej@3drealms.com
----------
Where's the rest of me???

I've finally made it back to the office, if only for a few hours.  At least I'm here, and not doubled over in pain by a bad gall bladder.  I want to thank everyone who expressed their support by e-mail and through the 3D Realms web bulletin board.  Your support helped me through some rough and painful moments, and for that I am truly grateful.  Now, I'm not going to give an incision-by-incision report and analysis of what happened, because most people could care less or do not like to discuss such matters.  For those who do care to hear about these things, I'll provide you with a quick, jounalized recap.

11/16/98 - Go to doctor's office.
11/17/98 - Have abdominal ultrasound performed.
11/19/98 - Learn I have gallstones (on my birthday, no less - a truly rotten present).
11/20/98 through 12/7/98 - Play bureacracy roulette with my HMO to get a referral to the surgery department, which the doctor (not my regular one) submitted and wound up getting lost in the red tape twice.
12/08/98 - Go to HMO for an unrelated appointment.  Develop severe pain and nausea, resulting in a stop by the original doctor's office on the way out.  Get examined by a second doctor, who sends me to emergency room.  Get admitted to hospital by doctor number 3.
12/09/98 - Spend most of the day absorbing IV dextrose/saline and injections of demerol mixed with phenergan.  See doctor #4, who consults with doctor #5 (the surgeon).  Surgeon sees me at 5:00pm.  By 6:30pm, I'm in pre-op, and by 8:00pm or so I'm in recovery, minus one gall bladder and an unknown quantity of gallstones.  More IV saline, but demerol is replaced by morphine.
12/10/98 - Another day of IVs, but this time with a bag of antibiotics thrown in.  Surgeon tells me that we made the right decision, since postponing the surgery would not have helped and since my gall bladder was "pretty sick" when he removed it.  Surgeon has me stay in hospital for another night due to fever and persistant post-op pain that Vicodin can't get rid of.  Back to IV morphine.
12/11/98 - Finish off IV antibiotics.  Pain controllable by new pills (Talwin), so IV comes out and I get released from the hospital.
12/12/98 through 12/17/98 - Recuperate at home

As you can see, it's been one hell of a trip.  I wouldn't even recommend it to my least favorite congressman.  If you start having pains in your upper right abdominal region, get your arse to the doctor!  Gallstones are treatable by medicine and non-invasive procedures if caught early enough.  My doctors missed my warning signs, mostly because they only saw me once or twice before the big flareup.  I made the mistake of writing the pain off as indigestion, so I never gave the doctors a chance to catch it.

I still have some recovery time to go through, as well as another doctor's appointment to check on the still stubborn post-op pain.  Still, I'm back (mostly), and that's what matters most to me.  Time to get some music and sounds going again!





INSERT SHASH HERE
	
    