Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Calling Doctor Howard!  Doctor Fine!  Doctor Howard!

For those of you who've been following the continuing saga of the Incredible Collapsing Bile Duct, it's gone and done it again.  Got the results today from a test the doctor did last week - the stuff my liver makes isn't getting through to where it should go.  "Restricted flow," the doctor called it.  I called it a few names that I can't/won't repeat here (my son reads these things).

The end result is that I have to go back into the hospital for another ERCP procedure.  That's the camera-down-the-throat-past-the-stomach-into-the-bile-duct thing for newcomers to this soap opera.  This makes the fourth time since December 1998 that I'll have been in for this problem, and it might not be the last.  You see, the doctor said one of two things could happen:  either he would just cut open the duct again, like he did last time, or (more likely, he said) he'll cut first and then insert a plastic device called a "stent" to hold the duct open and help it heal properly.  If the stent goes in, then I have to go back 6 weeks afterwards to have it removed.

Either way, it's happening on Thursday (September 9), and I'm definitely not looking forward to it.  Too many drugs, too many doctors, too much wasted time laid out recuperating from surgery.  Sew in a piece of garden hose and be done with it, I say.

On a lighter note, here's a bit of fun stuff.  As a transplanted Austin native, I've got a jones for barbecue.  I try to make it myself, and while I'm getting close, I'll never be able to match my favorite place - the Salt Lick (http://www.saltlickbbq.com).  One of the best things about their food is the sauce they use.  It's unique - the origins of it date back many years, and rumors of ingredients like pickled peach juice still swirl 'round it.

A few days ago, I broke down and ordered some of it from their web site, along with a bottle of dry rub for home-cooking some brisket.  It's listed as a "gift pack," but it wasn't bound for any place other than my fridge.  Still, there was a space on the order page for a message for the recipient.  I left it blank and clicked on through.  The order system refused to process the order until I put something in that space, so I typed in "Fnord!", thinking it would print out on the invoice or something.

Yesterday, the package arrived.  It included a paper gift note with the word "Fnord!" hand written inside.  I showed it to my wife, and we both had a laugh - somewhere down in Driftwood, Texas, someone had to physically write the word "Fnord!" on a gift card and stick it in the mail.  Hilarious.






-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-
	
    