Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Playing HIDA and Seek

Today included a follow-up visit to the gastroenterologist.  He wanted to see how well the new medicines (Actigall and Darvocet) were working.  I'd only been on the Actigall since Sunday - the pharmacy didn't have it when I went to fill it last week, and I had to wait for a supply to come in.  The upshot of this is that we really couldn't tell whether or not it's working yet.

I was able to tell him that the new painkiller (Darvocet) wasn't working.  It wasn't even working as well as the old painkiller was.  So, the pharmaceutical merry-go-round gets fired up again, and this time the doctor gives me a prescription for Tylox (oxycodone & APAP).  This is stronger than any of the previous painkillers I've taken, and Texas law requires that it be dispensed with a special prescription form that has a 7 day "fill it or lose it" limit.

Once again, my regular pharmacy didn't have the stuff, but due to the nature of the medicine, they would have had to special order it.  That meant it wouldn't get there for two weeks, which would mean the prescription would expire before it could be filled.  What I wound up doing was calling all of my HMO's provider pharmacies in Garland until I found one that had the stuff.  Time consuming and a big hassle, but at least I finally got the prescription filled.

(You know there's got to be something wrong when the doctor starts prescribing medicines that the pharmacies don't normally carry.  Just a thought.)

The last thing the doctor did today was order another HIDA scan.  It will take place in a week or two, after the Actigall has had a chance to do its stuff.  I think I wrote about this previously - it's a nuclear medicine test that examines the rate of flow of bile through the liver and bile duct.  A site with information and photos on this can be found here.  In short, you go in, lie down under a nuclear imaging machine, get an IV administered, and have radioisotopes injected.  After that, you have to lie perfectly still for an hour, until they inject you with something else that forces the liver and (if you've got one) gall bladder to contract.  After they monitor you for about 10 minutes, they let you go.

This second HIDA scan is supposed to tell whether or not I've still got restricted bile flow.  The films will tell for sure, but the doctor gave me a quick way of telling on my own.  If there's no pain or nausea during the test, then the flow is most likely okay.  However, if the contractions forced by the second injection cause pain and nausea (as they did the last time I had the test), then the flow is probably still restricted.

If the results of the test show unrestricted bile flow, then the doctor says my current problems are most likely due to an inflammation which can be treated with medicine, time, and rest.  On the other hand, if I've still got restricted flow, then that means he'll probably put me back in the hospital again for another camera down the throat procedure.  Either way, I'll know for sure in the next few weeks.  I hope.

Finally, on a non-medical note:  what do you think about the nominees for this year's Grammy awards?  The complete list is posted at http://www.grammy.com/nominee - to be honest, I didn't find much that excited me beyond all of the Santana nominations.  There is no way in hell that I'm voting for Cher's "Believe," TLC's "No Scrubs," Sixpence None The Richer's "Kiss Me," or anything involving Britney Spears.  Wieder's going to hate me for that last one, but that's fine - he's entitled to his own opinion, just as I am.  Besides, I really think he's attracted to Britney for reasons other than her singing, if you know what I mean. ;-)




-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-