Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Suc(ralfate) it Down

Yet another gastroenterologist follow-up yesterday, with better results than previous visits.  The Actigall seems to be helping.  The HIDA scan showed no restricted flow, and I've just generally felt better over the past month.  I still have days where the pain hits rather hard.  Most of the time nowadays, the pain is a constant mid- to low-level ache, but once in a while it gets rather intense.  In other words, I'm not quite officially healed yet, but at least I'm not laid out flat on a regular basis anymore.

Now that the Actigall seems to have stabilized the bile flow problem, my doctor is trying to figure out what is causing the occasional pain, nausea, and liver spasms that keep hanging around.  He's added sucralfate to my medicines, which he called a sort of "super antacid," in the hopes that it will help.  I hope it'll let me heal up so that I can stop taking painkillers three times a day.

BTW, yes, that previous paragraph included the words "liver spasms."  I've had these ever since the gallbladder was removed, almost 15 months ago now.  Imagine a fish about the size of a small white bass or a very large bluegill perch flopping around on a deck.  Now, imagine what it would feel like if that fish were inside you, in the abdomen just below your right rib cage.  That'll give you some idea of what a liver spasm feels like.  It's not always painful, but it sure as hell feels weird.

One final note:  I've now officially added "Birdy The Mighty" to my list of favorite anime.  George and Keith got me hooked on anime during Shadow Warrior development (remember "Nin-Nin Gets His" from the SW soundtrack?).  I think Brenda would probably like to shoot them for that. ;-)  If you get the Encore Action Channel, tune in late on Saturday nights and catch some of what they show.  I think they're re-airing "Tekkaman Blade II" in March - that's another anime that's on my list.




-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-