Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Fifty Metre Penalty

Ah, to be in Melbourne when the footy hits the turf....  One of these days, I'm going to make a pilgrimmage down to Australia, get myself a seat in the outer at Optus Oval, buy myself a meat pie, and do a bit of barracking for Carlton.  Yes, it's fun watching them on Fox Sports World and listening to the netcasts (what kind of drugs are 3AW's announcers on?), but just once I've got to see it in person.  Too expensive for this season, but soon...soon....

For those of you wondering what the smeg I'm talking about, go visit http://www.afl.com.au and read up on it.  This is the AFL's website.  AFL in this case means the Australian Football League, not to be confused with the American AFL of the 1960s.  We're talking Aussie Rules Football here, mates.  I got hooked on it back in the mid 1980s, when ESPN broadcast a Grand Finals match between Hawthorn and Essendon (and back when it was called the Victoria Football League, or VFL).  Since then, I've slowly come around to being a supporter of the Carlton Blues, although it doesn't bother me to see Essendon win now and then (heresy, I know).

If you are, like me, suffering from withdrawal symptoms now that football season is finished here in the States, check out the AFL.  It's a good substitute for your football jones, and it mixes in well with any other sports you might follow.

A quick request - I am trying to get info on the song "Up There, Kazaly."  Anything that anyone can send (links, lyrics, background story, etc.) would be appreciated.

One final request, non-AFL related - if anyone is familiar with a Russian/Soviet aircraft called the "acronoplan" (sp?), please send me an e-mail.  I saw this thing on a show broadcast last week on The Learning Channel, and I haven't been able to find anything about it on the web.  It's a monster of a jet powered craft, but it doesn't fly like a conventional airplane.  It uses 10 or 12 jet engines to propel itself at over 300 miles per hour across water, using ground effects to "float" just a few feet above the surface.  It also holds the record for the most weight ever lifted into the air.  I'd love to get my hands on some photos or other information of this or other similar craft.






-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-