Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Isn't Democracy Wonderful?

On March 14th of this year, I voted in the Texas Democratic Party primary elections, in Dallas County precinct 2142.  Included at the very end of the ballot for that election was the position of Precinct Chairman.  There were no declared candidates for the position - only a line for "write in" voting.  So, being the eccentric person that I am, I wrote in my own name, marked the box, and turned in my ballot.  I never expected anything to come of it.  Boy, was I wrong.

Today, a letter from the Dallas County Democratic Party was in my mailbox at home.  The letter begins as follows:

"In the March 14, 2000 Democratic Primary you were elected by a write-in vote as Democratic Precinct Chair for your precinct."

I was floored.  Literally.  You realize what this means, of course.  Out of all of the people in my precinct, I was the only person who voted in that category!!!  No one else in precinct 2142 bothered to put anything in that box, much less write in their own name!  This must be the case, since the only other person who might have done something would have been my wife, and she says that she left that race unchecked as well.  Otherwise, there would at least have been a run-off between myself and whomever else may have written themselves in on the ballot.  Apparently, no one else did.

So, by default, and by the virtue of having been the only person to have voted in the race, I have been elected as Democratic Precinct Chair for Dallas County Precinct 2142.  As Mr. Ripley would say, "Believe It or Not."

So, now comes the hard part - deciding whether or not to accept the position.  I've got until May 1st to decide, since that's the date I'm supposed to be sworn in.  I haven't figured out whether or not I'll be able to serve, mainly since I'm not sure what the position entails.  I'll have to seriously think this one over.

Now, a non-political note.  Thanks to everyone who sent info on the Russian Ekranoplan and on the song "Up There Cazaly."  Turns out I would have found more info on my own if I'd known how to spell these two items correctly. ;-)

Finally, a quick medical update.  After a few good months, where it looked like I was really making some progress, things have gone downhill again.  The pain and nausea are back, and I'm back on the Talwin and Tigan to keep them under control.  My last liver function test showed an elevated SGPT (a.k.a. ALT) level.  It was in the mid 90s, when it should be somewhere between 7 and 50 or so.  (For information, check out http://my.webmd.com/content/asset/adam_test_sgpt .)  No idea what this means yet, but I should find out from my doctor sometime today.  It doesn't seem to indicate that the bile duct is closing down again - at least, that's what the nurse who read the results to me said.




-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-