Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Now, I Did NOT Volunteer for This One

A few days ago, I got a big envelope full of stuff from the Dallas County Elections Department.  It was addressed, "Dear Alternate Judge...."  Hoo boy.

Seems that somehow, someone either nominated me for the position of Alternate Election Judge for Dallas County Precinct 2142, or they pulled my name off the list of chairmen and slapped it onto their nomination sheet.  Either way, I did not volunteer for the position this time.  Fortunately, there's only one election left this year, and not very many next year, so I may not have to do a whole hell of a lot.

Still, it was rather funny to read through the materials in the package.  There's even a copy of the court order (Order No. 20001617) that made the appointments official.  The order is signed by none other than Dallas County Judge (brace yourself) Lee Jackson.

No, I did not get promoted.  There is another Lee Jackson in the area, and I've been bumping into him ever since 1979.  That first run-in happened when my high school band had made a day trip to Dallas to watch the Lake Highlands Festival of Drums and Bugles.  When the time came to present the trophies, the announcer said they were being presented by State Representative Lee Jackson.  Everyone (including myself) only heard the "Lee Jackson" part at first - it took a moment to realize that they weren't talking about me.

A few years later, after Brenda and I were married, I was sitting at home one evening when I got a phone call.  They asked if I was Lee Jackson, and they said that they were from the Dallas Morning News and wanted to talk to me about my bill.  I'm sitting there in my home in Austin, wondering why the hell someone from Dallas wants to talk about a bill for a newspaper I've never read, much less subscribed to.  When I told them that I don't subscribe, they said, "No, the bill you introduced on the floor of the House of Representatives today."  Sorry, wrong Lee Jackson.  I told the reporter they had the wrong number, and I swear I could literally hear them turn red from embarassment.

Since then, I've heard him mentioned in the news many times, and soon after I moved to Garland, I got to see his campaign signs (this time for Dallas County Judge) sticking out of the ground everywhere.  Joe Siegler went out and grabbed one of them for me after the last election - I've got it hanging on the wall behind the door of my studio.  Now, I get an official court order signed by him.  Ever get the feeling you're being followed? ;-)

Health report:  mostly unchanged, but with a slight decline as of late.  More pain and more nausea than I've had all year.  I finally got a referral to a new gastroenterologist, only to find out that he doesn't specialize in biliary procedures.  His opinion was that I'm going to have to go into the hospital again for another ERCP procedure, but he doesn't handle that kind of operation.  Now, I have to go back to my HMO, see the primary care doctor again (a new one - the one I've had for years jumped ship without telling any of her patients), and get a referral to a different gastroenterologist that the one I saw recommended.

For "Bob"'s sake, do NOT sign yourself up with Texas Health Choice or any Sierra HMO plan.  I've had nothing but bad luck with them, and right now, their doctors are leaving like rats jumping off a sinking ship.  I predict that we'll be with a different HMO in a few months, after this fall's government plan open season (I'm covered under my wife's IRS plan).

At least no one has slashed my tires or thrown rocks at my house lately (knock on silicon).

One final note - if you get Fox Sports World, make sure you tune in Friday night (Sept. 1) at 11:00pm EDT.  They're broadcasting the Australian Football League Grand Final live from the MCG in Melbourne, Australia.  The regular season ladder-topping Essendon Bombers go up against the Melbourne Demons for the AFL Premiership - the first time in over 30 years that they've met in the Grand Final.  Unfortunately, Essendon beat out my Carlton Blues last week to advance to the Grand Final, but Carlton were missing quite a few of their star players (imagine the Dallas Cowboys of the mid '90s with Troy Aikman, Emmit Smith, and Michael Irvin all injured, and you'll get the idea - same deal here).  Essendon and Melbourne are in top form right now, so it's going to be one screamer of a match.  Grab a meat pie and tune in, mate!





-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-