Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Waku Waku, Pururun, and Whatever Else Fits

This is a rather significant day for me, today.  January 15th, 2001, marks the 5th year that I have been 3D Realms' Music and Sound Director.  I was promoted on January 15th, 1996.  It's been one hell of a wild ride, and I'm still enjoying it.  Thanks to everyone for their support - here's to more of the same in the future.

On an unrelated point, I'm really starting to broaden my anime experience.  Joe Siegler gave me a copy of the special edition DVD of "Vampire Hunter D" for Christmas.  This is a classic of the genre', and I highly recommend it.  I also finally got both VHS tapes of the subtitled version of "Birdy the Mighty."  Found them on sale at The Right Stuf.  Right now, I'm waiting for DVD number 5 of the "Gundam Wing" series to arrive, and I have the first DVD of the "Sailor Moon S" series pre-ordered (subtitles - hoorah!).

Keith Schuler lent me his "Serial Experiments: Lain" DVDs a while back. Heavy duty stuff.  The way I see it, if David Lynch were to do an anime series, this is how he'd do it.  Very "Twin Peaks" in terms of style and storyline.  Also, the music played over the opening titles is extremely good.  BTW, if you're into Lain, check out the Aluminum Studios website.  The guy behind this site has done a pair of incredible music videos based on scenes from Lain.  He's also got a few others online which are well worth viewing, especially his "Blue Mercury" video.  Extremely good stuff.

My latest obsession is a bizarre little series called Tenshi ni Narumon. (Don't confuse this with the Tenchi series seen on Cartoon Network - it's not related in any way).  Tenshi ni Narumon is one of the strangest things I've seen in my life.  It's ultra-kawaii in parts, but with enough outlandishness thrown in that you just can't resist watching it.  There's no way I can describe it here.  Check out http://jeneki.megami.net/tenshi/perl/index.pl for information, and then grab some of the fansubs.  If you can get past the dancing in the first episode, you'll be in for a delightfully weird treat.

One series that I'm having trouble getting into is "Magical Girl Pretty Sammy." No, I didn't actively search this one out.  Let's just say that I've seen the first three episodes, and I'm not too sure I want to go beyond that. Sasami strikes me as an extremely shrill version of Sailor Moon (no, I don't consider Usagi to be shrill - not by comparison to Sasami, at least).  I think that's intentional, based on what I've seen - hell, I'm just waiting for Ryo-Ohki to sprout a crescent-shaped bald patch on its head and start talking to video game consoles, just like Luna did in the first Sailor Moon season.  If anyone can give me a compelling reason to watch this series beyond episode three, I might continue watching.  Otherwise, I'm leaving it and moving on to more entertaining stuff.

BTW, I think Brenda (my wife) is getting tired of anime.  She loves the Gundam Wing series and is a big Heero Yuy fan, but that's about it.  She couldn't stand the dubbed version of Blue Seed or any of the other stuff that the Encore Action Channel shows.  I'm afraid to even try to introduce her to Sailor Moon - she just wouldn't understand.  Maybe if I gave her the mangas first.  Hmm. :-)  At least my son is still into anime, althogh he's almost exclusively into the series aimed at males (Blue Seed being an exception, sort of).  He won't go near any of the shoujo stuff.  Give him another 4-5 years, though - he'll figure things out soon enough. ;-)



-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-