Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
"Onegai shimasu, Daruma-san!" - Dispell-sama, "Tenshi ni Narumon!

Thanks to everyone for your words of support on my 5th year as Music and Sound Director.  I didn't expect anything from the announcement, so the response it generated was quite the nice surprise.  I'm looking forward to my 10th year overall Apogee/3D Realms anniversary on May 5th, 2003.  Should be fun.

Outside of my steady workday diet of sound design, my after-hours anime odyssey continues.  I've finally finished watching all 26 episodes of "Tenshi ni Narumon!".  You can read what I wrote about in on the 3D Realms forum page by clicking here.  This series is compelling, to say the least.  It's the best anime I've ever seen.  Great music, OVA quality animation, humor that will split your sides, and enough drama to move anyone.  You won't be disappointed, if you can make it past the extreme silliness of the first episode.  This is *not* a kiddie show.  It's anime of the highest order.

BTW, would someone mind confirming my suspicions about the use of negi (Japanese long onions) as a female "home remedy" in Japan?  I've got a pretty good idea as to what they're used for and how they're used, but I'd like confirmation.  Then again, maybe this is something I don't need to hear....  ^_^;

If anyone is interested in the fansubs of "Tenshi ni Narumon!", they're available in DivX;-) AVI format from the Tenshi ni Narumon! page at Fumei Anime.  Larger high-quality MPG versions are available from the Anime Download Site, but it's rather difficult to get through to their main FTP or any of their mirrors.

On another anime issue, I should clear up something from my previous update.  I mentioned that I was having a hard time getting the hang of a series called "Magical Girl Pretty Sammy."  I was wrong on two counts.  First, the actual title of what I've been watching is "Magical Project S," which is the TV series that aired after the OVA series was released.  "Magical Girl Pretty Sammy" is the title of the OVA, and it's got some major differences when compared to the TV series.  Second, I'm not quite as put off by the show anymore.  In fact, after I made it past episode 5, it really started growing on me.  Pixy Misa is turning out to be one of my all-time favorite anime villains, right up there with Professor Tomoe, the Witches 5 (esp. Eudial and Mimete), and the Amazoness Quartet from the Sailor Moon S and SS series.  There's even a decent plot that starts to develop after about episode 4 or 5, involving Sasami's friend Misao.  I won't spoil it for you - if you're interested, watch the show.

Finally, an health update.  The saga of The Bile Duct that Wouldn't Heal continues.  I had it officially confirmed by my doctor this past Thursday that I'm stuck with a condition called "post-cholecystectomy syndrome."  I heard him mention this a couple of months ago when he was writing up my chart after an appointment, but I didn't take the time to look it up until just a week or so ago.  I did not enjoy seeing the kind of stuff I found in my research.  Put simply, this syndrome develops in some patients after gallbladder removal surgery, and once it sets in, it's damned difficult to deal with.  When I read the symptoms reported for the syndrome, I was a bit shocked at how well they matched what I've had for the past two years.  They include chronic pain in the liver region (right where the gallbladder used to be), accompanied by nausea, heartburn, diarrhea, and bile duct spasms.  In some cases, it can disable.  Surgery is often required (I've had more than my fair share of surgery, thanks), but it doesn't always help.

No one knows exactly how or why it develops, and there's no quick or guaranteed fix for it.  It's one of those deals where it might clear up on its own one miraculous morning, or it might buy a twin bed, move in with you, and stay as an uninvited guest for the rest of your life.  The way things have gone for me lately, it looks like a moving van has pulled up to my curb.  I'm stuck with it for the foreseeable future, and the only thing I can do is figure out how to deal with it so that it doesn't totally disrupt my life.

My first goal is to get the situation stabilized so that I don't lose any more work time due to the symptoms of the syndrome.  I'm in "whatever it takes" mode on this.  My doctor (Dr. John R. Hyatt, Jr., M.D. - quick plug for one of the top gastro-docs in the area) and I are working very closely towards this goal.  We're trying just about everything he knows of to throw at it, and we won't quit until we find something that works.  This can be quite a pain on its own: I wound up missing a day yesterday because of some problems I've had adjusting to the new medications I got last week.  (Fortunately, things are better today - I'm working on Saturday to make up for being out yesterday.)  It's a necessary pain, though, especially when the previous combination wasn't keeping things well enough under control.

My next goal is to get things to heal enough (after the medicines stabilize the situation) so that I can stop taking pain medication every day.  I've been on painkillers almost non-stop since the stent went in, back in September of 1999.  To be specific, I've been on Talwin NX (pentazocine HCL 50 mg with naloxone 5 mg).  The current pain that I get from having the syndrome is definitely chronic (i.e., persistent), and is severe enough to require daily treatment with pain medication.  Thankfully, what I've been prescribed is not something that's prone to become habit forming, according to what Dr. Hyatt says and what I've read online (the naloxone counters the pentazocine's addictive properties).  Still, if I had my choice, I wouldn't be taking any pain medicine at all, and that is my goal in this case.

First things first, though.  I'm trying like hell to get (and keep) things under control with some combination of medications and treatment.  After I've accomplished that, then I can try backing off of the medicines one at a time (pain medicine first) and see if things will stay under control.  One thing at a time, one thing at a time.

I really should get myself another Daruma doll.  If anyone has a Daruma that they haven't painted an eye onto yet, feel free to send it this way if you aren't going to need it this year.  I'll take any luck I can get right now.  ^_^



-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-