Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Without Chemicals, He Points

Thanks to Keith Schuler, I have now seen all of the episodes of Neon Genesis Evangelion.  As strange as I thought Serial Experiments: Lain was, Eva is even stranger.  IMHO, these two series beg the question:  do anime creators get their inspiration from David Lynch, or does David Lynch get his ideas from anime?

Believe it or not, I was able to follow the last few episodes.  Shinji finally attains "enlightenment," for lack of a better description.  I'm not sure how I feel about this.  Part of me thinks that the series took itself way too seriously.  Another part of me is impressed by the way the author brought his own personal emotions into the series.  Either way, I can understand why some fans expressed their outrage at the strangeness of the original ending.  The text shown at the beginning of the last episode says that there is not enough time to describe what happened during Third Impact, which is very true.  Out of the dozen or so characters in the series, they were only able to show what happened to Shinji.  That leaves out a hell of a lot of information, and makes it rather impossible to really wrap up the series in a satisfying way.

Anyway, I've read up on the movies that were produced after the end of the series, and I'm looking forward to seeing them when I can.

On another anime front, Tenshi ni Narumon! has been licensed for North American release!!!  The official web site of Studio Pierrot, the studio that produced the series, says the following:


"Tenshi ni Narumon" has been acquired for North American release.
The 26-episode TV series revolves around Noelle, a very innocent
girl from another dimension. She falls in love with a normal human
boy, Yuusuke, and moves her family into his house, transforming
his life.

Original concept by HEAVEN PROJECT and produced by Bandai Visual,
Studio Pierrot, and TV Tokyo.


This description hardly does the series justice.  As I mentioned in a previous update, Tenshi ni Narumon! is one of the best anime series I have ever seen.  Now it would appear that everyone in North America will be able to see it, without having to chase down fansubs! :)

BTW, I still haven't found out who has "acquired" the series, although since Bandai helped to produce it, they would seem to be a logical choice.  Regardless of who gets it, I just hope they put out an unedited version on DVD with the original Japanese soundtrack and English subtitles.  The thought of a dubbed version of Noelle's voice...it's almost too horrible to imagine.

Finally, the first seven episodes of the third season of Sailor Moon (better known as Sailor Moon S, episodes 90 through 96 overall) arrived on DVD recently.  For the first time ever, Sailor Moon episodes are commercially (and legally) available in North America in their original, uncut, undubbed form.

If you've always thought of Sailor Moon as a kiddie/girlie show, you owe it to yourself to watch the original.  The dubbed version of Sailor Moon that runs on American TV today is nothing in comparison.  The original was actually very dramatic, well acted (okay, voiced), and highly addictive.  The dubbers toned down most of the content to make things "acceptable" to the American audience.  They tore the heart out of it in the process.  They also used voice actors who were, well, not so good.  Some would say they were horrible.  Depending on the part, they either phoned in their performances or went way over the top in their interpretations.  A good case in point would be the series currently running on Cartoon Network (seasons 3 and 4, or S and SuperS).  Serena/Sailor Moon (Usagi in the original) sounds like she's yodeling most of the time, while Amara/Sailor Uranus (Haruka in the original) is so monotone that she qualifies as a substitute for sleeping pills.  In the original, these roles had some real fire to them, especially Haruka's role.

Do yourself a favor and watch the original.  You won't regret it.







-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-
	
    