Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Opening Weekend, but Not What You Think

April is almost here, and I can almost hear Joe down at the other end of the office salivating heavily over the start of baseball season. I'm looking forward to seeing the Houston Astros in action again, of course, but this weekend marks the start of something that I've been looking forward to even more.



Ahh, yes. Footy. Australian Rules Football. Time to dig out the meat pie recipe, tune in the Netcast on the AFL web site, and sit back and enjoy the carnage. The season started last night, with Essendon absolutely pounding the Kangaroos by 85 points. For me, however, the season really starts tonight when Carlton travels to take on Fremantle at about 3:00 a.m., my local time.  The game isn't being Netcast for some reason, but I'll probably still watch the live scoreboards and listen to one of the other matches instead.

Last time I mentioned the footy in my .plan file, I got e-mail from several Australians who were wondering if I was in fact an escaped Aussie masquerading as a Texan.  No, sorry, but this is not the case.  I'm a fourth-generation Native Texan, born in Austin and raised in Houston and Pasadena.  My footy obsession can be blamed on ESPN, who broadcast a Hawthorn v Essendon Grand Final live back in the mid-80s.  I've been addicted ever since, and once my son saw his first game, he's almost as hooked as I am.  He can proudly lay claim to being the only person in his school to own a Carlton t-shirt and an AFL football.

If you want to find out just what the hell I'm talking about, then tune in to Fox Sports World on Thursday, April 5th, at 11:00 p.m. EDT and watch Port Adelaide v Brisbane. It'll be replayed the following day at 5:00 p.m. EDT. More TV info for North America, including info on how to get Fox Sports World, can be found at http://www.afana.com/af_tvinfo.shtml - click on the latest date for the most recent TV info.  Watch a few games, and then you'll be hooked as well.  It's worth it.  :-)

Here are some more good AFL links for ya, mate:

AFL Website - http://www.afl.com.au
Australian Footbal Association of North America - http://www.afana.com
Fox Sports World - http://www.foxsportsworld.com





-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-
	
    