Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
You Can Check Out Any Time You Like (as long as it's before noon)

As the title would imply, we are back from the Hotel California.  Yet another year going up and down Figueroa Street, another case of jet lag (both ways), and another Iron Chef experience to report.

We stayed at the same hotel as we did last year (the Radisson Midtown Los Angeles, on Figueroa, right across from USC).  The only difference was that this year the USC graduation took place before we got there.  As a result, our room was missing a lot of stuff - no clock, no glasses, only one or two towels, no iron, and so on.  In fact, we had to call housekeeping every single day we were there to get something that should have been there but wasn't.  We were told this was because they were short on some items due to USC students "lifting" them from the rooms.

For some reason, the E3 shuttles didn't run to our hotel.  They didn't last year, either.  We were only a couple of miles straight down from the convention center, so this doesn't make much sense.  Cab fares tend to add up, sad to say.

E3 itself seemed a bit more reserved this year as compared to last year.  Less swag, fewer "must see" demos, more unused space on the convention floor.  The number of people attending seemed to be about the same, but there just wasn't the buzz among them that there was last year.

Those who know me know that I'm cannon fodder for most games.  Racing games are the exception, and I found one that I liked this year - Fury CART Championship Racing from Midway.  It was a lot of fun piloting Juan Montoya through the streets of Houston at 175 mph, even if he's no longer on the CART circuit. :-)  I'm quite hooked on CART, Indy Racing League, and Formula 1 racing, and this game was quite fulfilling.

IRON CHEF MOMENT:  Just like last year, I had another Iron Chef moment at E3 this year.  No, I didn't see one of the Iron Chefs, nor did I eat at any restaurant that had anything to do with them.  I merely had the good luck to have a restaurant experience that made me feel like I was a taster on the panel of the Iron Chef show.

This year's moment took place at a literal hole-in-the-wall called R-23, located at 923 Third St. in Los Angeles.  Nick went with me, since he only got to try a tiny bit of sushi during last year's Sushi Roku trip.  Getting there was quite an adventure.  We asked the bell captain at the hotel for a cab, and instead we got a private semi-limo car for about the same price.  The driver had to call for directions, and he wound up getting lost on the way.  We drove through an extremely low-end part of LA on the way - not one that you'd want to break down in, by any means.  We did eventually find the place.  It is located in the middle of an alley between Second and Third streets, with no sign to indicate it at all.  It's pretty obvious once you look in the window, though, as you can see the minimalist-decor along with the sushi bar at the back.

We sat down on the cardboard (yes, cardboard) chairs that were in the place (designed by some artist, and much more comfortable/sturdy than you'd think) and waited for the server.  She gave us menus and read off the specials.  I asked if they did 'omakase' meals, and she said yes.  Nick was really interested to try out sushi, so that's what we went with.  We were not disappointed.

In a matter of minutes, we were presented with a plank that had to be 5 feet long and 8 inches wide that was brimming with different types of sushi.  Among the identifiable items, there was the usual tuna, salmon, clam, sea urchin (uni), and salmon roe.  There were also a couple of rolls, several other white fish items (one was yellowtail, but I'm not sure which), and to top it all off, a mound each of wasabi and pickled ginger at the end of the plank.  Nick joked around about stuffing the whole mound of wasabi in his mouth, but after a taste of it (and given that the mound was bigger than a golf ball), he backed down a bit. ^_^

The overall quality of the sushi was excellent.  I'm not an uni fan, but the uni we got was very good indeed.  That's the only part of the meal that Nick didn't like, and it kept him from trying the salmon eggs.  His loss - I love salmon eggs, and these were top-notch.  I think we both agreed that the salmon and the octopus were the best of the lot, but the rest were by no means inferior.  In the end, we could not finish everything that was on the plank.  We were stuffed to the gills, and we enjoyed every minute of the process that got us there.

If you can find R-23, I strongly recommend that you go.  Take a cab if you need to, since parking is somewhat limited (and potentially risky).  They called a cab for us so that we could get back to the hotel (the cab driver had a hard time finding R-23, just like the other driver), so return transportation shouldn't be a problem.

FINAL NOTE:  Thanks to everyone who sent in suggestions on how to get the 8Port/SE working in WinME.  Sadly, none of them worked, and I'm about to blow out the whole thing and try installing Win98 (original) instead.  Fingers firmly in crossed mode. :-)






-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-