Account Name:  leej
Email address: leej@finger.3drealms.com
----------
A Modest Proposal (No Baby Eating Involved)

Tonight, the country's favorite players of the game of baseball gather to play yet another meaningless All-Star Game.  Ho hum.  Just a few days earlier, the teams of the American League and National League finished playing the last of the interleague games for this season.  Ho hum again.  At the end of the season, all the powers that be in baseball are going to gather together, look at their ratings and revenues, and wonder why they aren't as good as they were in the past.  After which, they'll probably discuss raising ticket prices for next year.

Major League Baseball is handling the interleague games and the All-Star Game all wrong, IMHO.  The novelty of interleague play wore off after the first year, with only a brief spike this year because of the Houston Astros / Texas Rangers matchup.  That thrill will dissipate just as quickly.  They've always handled the All-Star Game in a less-than-spectacular manner, since everybody knows it's totally meaningless.  Hell, even the players who get selected are starting to stay home more often, rather than risk injury (or embarrassment) while playing a game that doesn't mean a thing.

I would like to propose a solution that would take care of several problems at once.  It would address interleague play, the All-Star Game, revenues, and fan/media interest.  In fact, I have already written this up and mailed it to the MLB offices, but I'm willing to bet my letter was never opened, much less read.  I therefore offer this up to the public, so that at least some sort of discussion of its merits can be possible.

The solution I propose is simple:  make the interleague games and All-Star Game actually mean something in the season which they are played.  Whichever league wins most of the interleague games would win the honor of home field advantage for their league's champion during the World Series.  If the interleague games are evenly split, then the All-Star Game would serve as the tiebreaker.

There are a lot of advantages to this plan.  First, fan and media interest would rebound.  There would be an additional item for the media to report on during the year and for fans to get excited about.  If controversy ensues, then that's just one more reason for the fans to tune in to their favorite sportscast.  Second, it would revive the notion of "league allegiance," which has been declining since interleague play was introduced.  Third, and most importantly, it would increase revenues for the entire league, if for no other reason than the increased interest in the games.  Finally, the league would never really have to worry about having to "spice up" the interleague games in the future, since each and every season would include a fight for home field advantage.

I'm interested to hear how anyone reading this might feel.  Send e-mail if you wish, but more importantly, if you agree with this proposal, please copy the relevant parts and send them to your local sports media (radio, TV, newspaper) and, if you can, to the MLB offices.

Thanks for letting me do a bit of off-topic soapboxing.  We now return you to your originally scheduled fnordage.






-=>INSERT SHASH HERE<=-