Login: pezman         			Name: AVP Dude
Directory: /usr/home/pezman         	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Never logged in.
New mail received Fri Sep  1 17:04 2000 (CDT)
     Unread since Fri Sep  1 16:07 2000 (CDT)
Plan:
Wow, it has been a while since I fired this bad boy up, but it looks like now is a great time to wipe the spider webs off of the ol' .plan file.  

So much has happened since the last update but for today I am going to exclusively focus on NOLF (No One Lives Forever for all of you who live under a rock and don't know it's abbreviation.)  Today is the day, yessiree.  The finishing touches are currently going on the downloadable demo of the game.  It is officially being referred to as a Technology Demo.  We will feature 4 singleplayer levels in the demo (One of which is a training mission).

The game is hot, I mean hot!  I am very pleased with the progress that it has made to date and hopefully you will enjoy it also.  Cate Archer is dead sexy, and just looking at a polied out model of her gets the juicies going =).

But here is the one thing that worries me about the demo, and about the people who are going to play it.  So sit down for a moment and listen to Kyle's story time as I explain one key feature about the game....

When playing No One Lives Forever you need to remember one thing.  You are a 60's spy, and you will want to play like one.  If you go through the game ala Quake tactics you will pass the game, but you will miss some of the funniest conversations that the guards have with one another.  The AI in NOLF actually has personality, they chat, they laugh, and most importantly, they are corney.  You can just about get through most of one level without killing a single person.  Keep this in mind!  

So when you get the demo that we are releasing in the next few hours, be sure to keep in mind that you are going to want to explore the levels and keep your weapons holstered so that you will experience as much of the game as you can.  If you go rampaging through the levels shooting every bad guy in site before he gets to say a word, then I would suggest to you, replaying the demo, as replay value with this demo is very high and enjoyable.