Login: seanr          			Name: 
Project:

Shhh


Plan:
Ok.. it seems that Rob has once again denied a Revolt rematch.
I've begged and pleaded, but to no avail.  He's just kinda chicken
that way.  Sure, he'll talk the smack.. but there just isn't anything
to him other than the words.  Hm.

A few of us (three from the company, and a couple friends) had a
really, really great time at the T.M.B.G. concert tonight.  Pretty tame
crowd... just a bunch of people really into good music.  Very good
concert.  They seemed totally into it.

I hit the Pancake House again.  Another Apple Pancake down.

Dad's celebrating his b-day tomorrow.  Happy 56th.  Mom is doing her
porkchop and fried rice (as per dads request) thing, which always
pleases.  I'm really looking forward to it.

You'll be in hell... before me!

Anyone know who Brytag is?  I'm thinking of using it as my handle...
just wanna see if anyone would get the reference..




-----------------------------------------------------------------




It seems that The Original Pancake House is a bit more wide spread than
I had first thought.  A very nice Berenger "Zor" Fish pointed out to me
that he had visited this restaurant all around the country.  He went
on to say that he disagreed with my assessment of the Dutch Baby as the
flagship product.. in his mind, it was clearly the Apple Pancake.

Since his email, I have made two trips to give this dish a try.  Until
then, I hadn't had the pleasure.

The Apple Pancake is pretty much the same as the Dutch Baby in basic
design.  Its an egg like crepe deal, in the shape of a bowl.  The Apple
Pancake goes one over the Dutch Baby here by filling in that bowl with
apple slices and molasses.

I entirely recommend the Apple Pancake.  It is a fine, fine food item.
But heed this warning:  The Apple Pancake likes to play a sick little
mind game with it's eater.

First, to even consider ordering this monster (I haven't actually been
able to finish one yet) you've gotta be pretty damn hungry.  So there 
you are.. you've just ordered an Apple Pancake, and you sit waiting.  
Somewhere between 20 and 30 minutes later, this beast arrives to find 
that it's eater (who was hungry HALF AN HOUR ago) has gotten even
hungrier.  This is the set up, and the punch line is that this thing
is freaky hot.  I'm not sure if it's the apple itself, or the molasses
that deserves this blame, but one of those two has a tremendously high
specific heat.  I would be surprised to learn that the oven in which it
cooked was more than a few degrees hotter than the food that is now
inches away from a very, very hungry (and perhaps naive) individual.

My tongue is currently burned.  In my blind desire, I very quickly
speared a nice looking apple slice, and shoved it into my mouth.
It wasn't an apple slice at all.. it was liquid hot mag-ma.

Be warned.


Now on to more important matters.  Since Robs (infamous) plan update,
proclaiming himself as "Genuine Ass Kicker", he has yet to even challenge
me to a follow up game.  Just thought I'd share.


Plug for a friends radio station (she said she plugged Gearbox):
And in the unlikely event that you are both reading this AND in the Athens
Ohio area, tune in to Power 105.5.  It's, like, the shit and stuff.