Login: seanr          			Name: 
Project:

Shhh


Plan:
  Ok.  My first angry plan update.

  But before I get to that, let me congratulate the makers of 
Counter Strike.  It has quickly become an office favorite, even over
Q3.  Especially over the lan.. there is nothing quite like a good 5
on 5 with everyone in the office.
  But it has a problem, and that's why I'm angry.  Lamers.  People who
thrive off of the attempt at ruining the fun of others.  In Counter
Strike it's exceedingly easy to spawn, buy a grenade, and toss it
at a friendly.  If the grenades didn't inflict team damage, they 
would be less real, and might lessen the game play experience, but
the alternative, where any chump can easily kill his own team mates,
is pretty harsh.  And a death in CS is worse than other online FPS 
games... a death in TFC for example, means you automatically respawn.  
A death in CS, means you wait for the end of the match.
  You might wonder why I'm complaining, since there is a built in
voting mechanism.  But my feeling is that the voting mechanism
(in concert with the easy to inflict team damage) actually encourages
this behavior.  Having a voting system means that these losers can
actually have a goal.  Rather than just getting taunted and yelled at
in the console, they have a real attainable goal.... something to
strive for.
  In TFC, someone can spam and be in general a lame player.  But it 
doesn't get them anywhere.  A lamer may piss someone off, get called
a few names, but that's the extent of it.  Eventually they tire of it
and move on.
  But in CS, they have a goal.  And so they work (hard) at reaching
that goal.  I've seen a guy who delights in being voted out.. he
gets voted out, changes his name slightly, joins back in, gets voted
out, changes his name slightly, joins back in, etc.

  Maybe there could be some heuristic to it.  Like, keep track of the
amount of team damage each player has inflicted and weight it so that
those who have done lots of team damage get kicked easier (fewer
percentage of votes).  Just don't display this weight!!  We don't want 
people having such direct feed back.. a lamer would use it as a score 
of sorts.
  Maybe the number of times a particular cd-key has been voted out
can be kept track of, and when that number reaches X, the cdkey
is revoked.  Or maybe servers can be set up so that only players
that have been voted out < Y number of times are allowed to join.
  But, I think, the real way to fix this problem in CS, is to remove
grenade friendly damage.  Or at least decrease it radically.

  I don't mean to be negative towards CS.  CS has given me lots of
great game experiences.  I mean no disrespect to the CS creators, who
no doubt have pondered this very issue for far longer than I.

  I just wanted to vent.

