Login: seanr          			Name: Sean Reardon
Project:

Shhh


Plan:
  Everyone has been so extremely kind in answering
my .plan request about NZ info.  Thanks to all who
wrote in (Nicola Simpson, David Gillespie, Chris
Bokitch, Chris Van Doren, Adam Glick, Kevin Davidson,
Raja, Daniel Sewell, Michael Besnard, Mario Wynands,
and Neil Graham.)

  I thought I would do a reverse slashdot interview
here.  On slashdot, lots of people ask questions
and one person answers.  Here, I've asked several
questions, and lots of people answered.

  In formatting these responses, it became very 
clear that New Zealanders are very friendly, 
outgoing people.  If Gearbox doesn't wind up in
NZ, it won't be because of the people.

  Special thanks to David Gillespie who points out
that there are 11 sheep for every person in New
Zealand.
  And also to Chris Van Doren of Ensemble
Studios who points out that 11 sheep just might
be enough for Gearbox Software's Mike Wardwell.



How New Zealand compares to the US in the following
areas:

1) Movie release dates ---------------------------------

From Kevin Davidson:
"Not that crash hot mostly ... seem to be somewhere 
between a week or 2 through to 6 weeks behind release 
dates in the US  ... seems to be speeding up tho."

From Daniel Sewell:
"Most movies are simultaneous release (Star Wars, 
Matrix etc). Others are a bit behind (!?). I believe 
we have some kind of record for seeing so many movies 
per year per head"

From Mario Wynands:
"Not bad.  Well after the US but usually before Europe."

From Neil Graham:
"MI:2 opens in a week or two.
X-Men opend August 17.
Usually release dates are a month or two behind the US."


2) Good Internet connection availability ---------------

From Kevin Davidson:
"Excellent for local stufff and not too bad for
overseas. By local I mean we get good 56k modem 
connections to NZ servers (110-180 ping times) where as 
I see a lot of US messages (in forums, list messages
etc) that seem to have a heap more problems getting 
good connections with acceptable pings. We have ADSL 
connections with good rates as well (now - only been 
available for last 12 months publicly) so game pings 
of 20-70 ms are the norm for those guys.
(bastards :-) )"

From Daniel Sewell:
"ADSL (almost) everywhere. 20-40ms Q3 ping times."

From Mario Wynands:
"Pretty good.  An 800MB limit on an ADSL connection 
will be about US$50 per month.  You can get unlimited 
transfers at 56k for about US$20 per month. No charges 
for local residential calls either."

From Neil Graham:
"All you can eat 56k6 $35-$40 NZ (halve roughly for 
US dollars).  Plenty of active competition.
High speed connections are available at varying costs.  
A Cable service is speading around the country, which 
is causing all of the competition to drop prices as 
it turns up. "


3) Xena cast member sightings --------------------------

From Kevin Davidson:
"(can't help here - sorry)"

From Daniel Sewell:
"Yes (further north of here). Lord of the Rings is 
just down the road."

From Mario Wynands:
"You see them around every now and again (more in 
Auckland than Wellington where we are based though).  
As it happens I went to an American Football training 
camp last week and met Mark Nua and one of the stunt 
trainers from Xena.
Cast members also turn up regularly on locally 
produced television programmes and celebrity events."

From Neil Graham:
"Depends on where you are.  Chances are better in 
auckland.  Spotting major cast members is as about 
as rare as you would expect for seeing someone in a 
decent sized city.  On the other hand you get to see 
local productions on TV with most of the cast members.
Quite a few people turn up in Xena with relativly small 
parts who happen to be locally famous.  We have a 
dreadful hospital soap which has had most of the cast 
do a stint on Xena.  
We are actually quite a way behind In seeing Xena though."

[**take note of that last sentence there.  shiver..**]


4) Cost of living --------------------------------------

From Kevin Davidson:
"I would have to say cheaper than the US for basics but 
for commercial property and cars etc it will be dearer. 
for example - I went to the States knowing that our 
exchange rate is half yours (i.e. $1 NZ gets me 
50cents US ) ... went to buy milk and bread etc and 
they were the same price as they are here ! ($2.50 US 
for 2 litre milk! shit me! it only $3.00 NZ for the same
here!) ... I mentioned this to a friend in the US and he
started waffling on about wages/salaries, rents etc etc 
etc ... as a holidayer it was expensive in the US but 
I'm guessin it evens out and the US has a boatload more 
people to average consumer prices amongst which should 
mean lower prices on a lot of stuff (i.e. 
refrigerators - your prices are WAAAY cheaper than ours 
for good models)."

From Daniel Sewell:
"Junk food is half the price of Aussie. I don't really 
have a reference to go by."

From Mario Wynands:
"Again quite low compared to the US (lets see - a 
Big Mac meal combo will cost about US$2.50, a room in 
a half decent apartment will cost between US$50-75 a 
week, a movie ticket for a new release is about US$5).
However, salaries are in line with that.  An entry level
programmer will earn the equivalent of about US$18,000.
A top dog programmer/project manager might earn up to
US$45,000 depending on the company."

From Neil Graham:
"Auckland  1 Million People - Very expensive.   
Have to drive everywhere.  Wellington - Slightly 
Expensive.  Mostly have to drive eveywhere.  
Chistchurch 200 thousand people - Cheaper.  QueensTown 
- Bloody Freezing.  A bit Expensive (for Skiing buffs)
Various small towns - Some are dirt cheap but deathly 
dull.  You can buy the entire town of Otera for 
under a million.  It is between two mountains and gets 
about 2 hrs singlight a day.  Mostly a ghost town now.
I live in Christchurch and like it enough to not want 
to move to Wellington or Auckland to get a real job.  
It is also what I know.  Rent is $250-$350nz per week 
for a house.  A 1.5 Litre bottle of coke costs $1.50 
from a supermarket or $2.50nz from a service station.
Cans of coke cost $1 - $1.20nz 
I have been either a student or a struggling game 
programmer for a few years.  You can live off $8000nz 
per year here, but it isn't nice. $50,000-70,000nz 
is a good income. $30,000nz is an ok income."


You're still here?  The movies over.  Go home.