
Welcome to Linux version 2.0.0 at finger.lith.com !

 10:42am  up 43 days, 17:14,  0 users,  load average: 0.04, 0.02, 0.00

Login: craigh         			Name: Craig Hubbard
Directory: /home/craigh             	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Fri Jul  4 00:45 (PDT) on ttyp0 from 208.8.216.193
No mail.
Plan:
8/14/97

Name: Craig Hubbard
Rank: Lead Designer
Project: Riot

A lot of people have written to me asking who I am, what my gaming background is, where I came from. Therefore, I have decided to divulge my mysterious origins and set matters straight.

I grew up in a remote mountain village in the northlands, where my father was renowned for forging high quality computer peripherals. I was eight years old when he pulled me aside and gave me a lecture that would shape the course of my life. 

"Son," he said to me, "nothing in this world can you trust: not keyboards, not joysticks, not Spaceorbs."

He held up a three button Logitech mouse carved with runes and intricate patterns.

"This you can trust."

He told me of the giants who lived in the earth, who had played games with other devices until Crom gave the Riddle of L33T to humanity. After that, he said, if you looked around at the deathmatch ladders, you would find mousers at the tops. Not giants, not gods, just men.

I listened with as much interest as I could feign, wanting only to go back inside and watch Animaniacs, but some of what he said sunk in. Had I know he would be defeated within two weeks, victim of Thulsa Doom2's ravening deathmatch bands, I might have listened more closely.

It would be many years before I would face Thulsa Doom2 again. I remember typing messages to him on his QuakeWorld server, where I had just taken a serious man-beating.

"You beat my mother! You beat my father! You beat my people!" I bellowed.

He was confused but finally conceded he had probably done so when he was younger and hungry for new peripherals.

"The Riddle of L33T," I typed.

"Yes! You know it, don't you boy?" The letters appeared slowly on the monitor screen with a lot of hesitation and backspacing--for a gaming god he wasn't much of a typist. "Let me tell you something. The mouse isn't power. Flesh is power! What is the mouse compared to the hand that wields it? Here, I'll show you."

He challenged a newbie who had been intermittently running past us bitching about the lag and blowing himself up. They played a quick match and he clobbered the poor sod 20 to -1. He macroed me: "Consider this on a 386."

The next few months were a blur of CGA sidescrollers and text adventure games, but eventually the message sunk in and I upgraded to a P200 with 64 MB of RAM and an ISDN. I ran into Thulsa Doom2 several months later on Lithium. His surprise at seeing me was nothing compared to his shock at the 50 to -3 stomping I gave him that afternoon.

You see, flesh may be power, but it doesn't hurt to have high framerate and a low ping.

-------

I'll bet $100 that I can eat more bugs than American McGee.
