Login: pmagrude       			Name: Patrick Magruder
Directory: /usr/users/pmagrude      	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
On since Wed Sep 23 11:24 (CDT) on ttyp1, idle 0:09, (messages off)
    from fireball
New mail received Wed Sep 23 12:00 1998 (CDT)
     Unread since Wed Sep 23 11:58 1998 (CDT)
Plan:
#include "stddisclaimer.h"
9/23/98
If anyone is having problems with the keyboard configuration in Ground
Zero type the following into the console (hit the ` key to get the 
console window).  

exec default.cfg

This will overwrite any configuration information you may already have, and
replace it with the default configuration as specified in the manual.  The
only change we made after printing the manual was that we moved the Tesla
Mine to the 'm' key to make it more convenient.

The problem people are having is that when QuakeII fails to find a config.cfg
file in the game directory (in this case, the rogue directory) it first
checks the baseq2 directory for a config.cfg file, and ends up copying it
to the game directory .. instead of running the default.cfg file that's in the
pak file.  So you end up with your configuration for QuakeII, not the new
configuration.  Our apologies to anyone who had problems with this.

We will be updating our web page shortly with even more configuration 
information, but this should get you started.

Enjoy!

9/11/98
Woo whoo!  Just saw Ground Zero at the Electronics Botique in Town
East Mall .. $29.99, and well worth every penny.  Seeing it on the shelves 
makes it all worthwile.  I'm sure it'll be in other stores as well .. this is
just the first one I saw.

8/17/98
Wow .. gotten a lot of interest in our new Tag game.  For the curious, it's
a heck of a lot like our previous tag implementation for Quake Mission
Pack 2:Dissolution of Eternity.  We've made some changes, of course, but
the basic game has the same feel.

Yes, you'll still hear cries of "Goin' Quad!" coming from our office ..

8/16/98
Had a blast with that interview on Shooters.  Thanks to Blue for the
opportunity, hope you all enjoyed it too.

I realized, after the show, that we totally forgot to mention our new
multiplayer game .. Tag!  A lot like regular deathmatch .. but with a
significant twist.  One of the players is IT .. don't worry, you can't miss it.
You get bonus frags for killing the player who is it, as well as bonus frags
for killing when you are it.  Of course, if you manage to kill the person 
who is it, you get a nice bonus .. in the form of health and armor.  There's
more to it, of course, but that's enough for now.  Suffice it to say it's 
a heck of a lot of fun.

The whole AI puzzle of how to make a monster look smart in the 1-5 seconds it
lives is an interesting one.  The obvious one is to make the monster smart
enough to live longer (by dodging, ducking, weaving, taking cover).  The
other trick you can pull is to have one monster distract the player, while the
other monster does something smart.  Pursuit code is also very important,
so the players can't just hop out of sight, figure out the strategy, and
pop back in and mow the monsters down at the player's liesure.  It's quite
a sight to see a monster take a plat after a player ..

Ah well, enough for now.  Have a nice day.

7/30/98

Wow, it's late.  Wow, I'm tired.  Just saw some models from our animation.
Those Russians are good!  I'm duly impressed.

Working hard on the game, getting all the stuff tweaked out just right.  You'd
be amazed how interesting of a problem our tesla mines pose for monsters, for
example.

Turrets, Medics, Gunners, and Widows, oh my!

Now, if there was only a way to get my to-do list to SHRINK instead of grow
every day, I'd be a much happier man ..

Old plans:
----------



News on the DVD front .. Warner Brothers Home Video reports over $100 million
in revenue for DVD disks.

Good.

There's an article on www.nando.net (techserver) but since they have a pretty high turnover rate, the url probably won't work.

http://www.techserver.com/newsroom/ntn/info/070898/info17_17680.html

Buy DVD.  Blow off DIVX, tell everyone you know the same.  If you don't know why, check out:

http://techzone.weezy.com/dvd-faq.htm

P