Login: pmagrude       			Name: Patrick Magruder
Directory: /usr/users/pmagrude      	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Last login Mon Jan 18 17:48 (CST) on ttyp0 from magic9ball
New mail received Mon Jan 18 17:46 1999 (CST)
     Unread since Mon Jan 18 17:46 1999 (CST)
Mail forwarded to: "|exec /usr/local/bin/procmail"
Plan:
#include "stddisclaimer.h"
1/17/99
Reading Zor's plan reminds me of the many hours I spent tuning my laser tag
rifle to get that extra 15 feet of effective range.  Wow.  At least I wasn't
as bad as my friend Matt, who went so far as to fit a "laser" sight to his
gun .. basically a modified flashlight that had the same dispersal pattern
as the IR beam out of the gun.  He was pretty damned effective with 
that, though.

I'll never forget the time we played at a friend's house.  After a couple of
hours of good clean fun, running up and down the street, we decided to call 
it quits.  No more than 15 minutes later, we hear a police chopper, and
five after that, we get a frantic phone call from a friend's mom who had
heard that "there were people running around with guns shooting at each
other" just down the street.

*cough* *cough*

Some people have such twitchy neighbors.

12/11/98
Disruptor for Unix, take 2.

*snap of director's board*

Courtesy of Zoid, I've put the Quake II:Ground Zero Disruptor Enabled 
game libraries for Unix Quake II on our web site's file area.

You can access them, as well as the DLL for Intel Win95/98/NT systems,
by going to:

http://www.rogue-ent.com/files/

For the web enabled finger files:

Rogue Files

Hopefully, this time it will work better.  Last time I really blew the
HTML .. forgetting quotes is a BAD thing.

12/11/98
(old plan update removed since it was messed up)

12/09/98
Due to demand, you can find a DLL which enables the 
Disruptor in Quake II: Ground Zero on our web site at

http://www.rogue-ent.com/disruptor.zip

You may need to do a "save this link as..." to get it to save correctly.

Read the README.txt that comes with it.  For the impatient, install it right
over the gamex86.dll file in your quake2/rogue directory.  Make sure that
you're running Quake II 3.20.

The Disruptor is a totally different kind of weapon.  First off, it tracks
your target.  It ignores power armor.  It glows dark.  It does damage over
a short period of time, instead of all at once.  There's nothing quite
like knowing you're about to die .. and getting of that last shot gaining
a mutual death.

The Disruptor, as I mentioned before, is sprinkled about on our deathmatch
maps.

Unix versions should be out shortly.

Correcting something I said before .. commenting out the #define is
the "correct" way to reenable the Disruptor.  Simply turning the 
flag from 1 to 0 enables it on the maps, but it messes some other things
up (for example, you can't give the weapon or the ammo).  Sorry about 
the confusion.  I recommend that all of you enterprising folks out 
there correct this mistake by recompiling or using the DLL 
we're providing.

Finally, remember that this is unsupported, use at your own risk, your
mileage may vary, do not taunt happy fun quake, etc.

12/02/98
Well, now that the source has been released, I guess that answers the
questions people had about when our source code would be released.  How
about now?

Some enterprising folks might try changing a #define (hint .. KILL_DISRUPTOR,
line 38) in g_local.h from 1 to 0.  Who knows what new weapons might end up 
back in the game. (hint .. disruptor).  You might even find a few on our
deathmatch maps (rdm4, rdm5, rdm6, rmd7, rdm8, rdm9, rdm13 .. and maybe more).

Yes, the weapon is called weapon_disintegrator, and the ammo is ammo_disruptor.

If interest warrants it, we'll try to arrange for a precompiled DLL on our 
website.

Enjoy!

11/30/98
Every now and then you stumble across some interesting and useful information.
This is information that should be useful to anyone aspiring to be a 
programmer .. or anything else in the gaming industry, for that matter.

What information is that?  Caffeine levels in various drinks, of course.
This list, while certainly not complete (no coffee, but we all know that it
has huge amounts of the stuff) should help for planning those late nights
we all en(dure/joy).

(information from the Dallas Morning News, 11/18/98, page D1, serving
size is 12 oz.)

Soda             Caffeine (mg)
Jolt                71.2
Sugar-Free Mr Pibb  58.8
Pepsi One           55.5
Mountain Dew/Diet*  55.0
Kick citrus         54.0
Mellow Yellow       52.8
Surge               51.0
Tab                 46.8
Coke/Diet Coke      45.6
Shasta Cola/Cherry  44.4
Mr. Pibb            40.8
Sunkist Orange      40.0
Dr Pepper           39.6
Storm               38.0
Pepsi               37.2
Diet Pepsi          37.0
RC Cola/Diet        36.0
Canada Dry          30.0
Barq's Root Beer    23.0
Diet Canada Dry      1.2
Mug Root Beer        0.0
Minute Maid Orange   0.0

* Mountain Dew apparently doesn't have Caffeine in Canada.  How strange.

As you can see, even though there are some new contenders, Jolt still is
the Caffeine King.  I would argue that there's such a thing as TOO much
caffeine (after all, twitching hands do not make for accurate typing) but
some would condemn me for heresy.  Mountain Dew's level is sufficient to
keep me going for those LATE nights.  I often wondered why Diet Pepsi just
didn't seem to have the same effect as Diet Coke .. now I know.

What really surprised me was the differences between the Orange and Root Beer
sodas.  Some have none, some have plenty.

Stuff to remember.

11/17/98
While I really appreciate the credit Blue gives me for the AI in Ground
Zero (about time!), I need to point out that Pete Mack did every bit as much
on the AI as I did.  It was a collaborative effort, we each did our part.
Some parts are very visible, other parts so subtle you don't actually notice
them, but believe me, they are there and you'd notice their absence.

That having been said .. what Blue says does, indeed, work.  We haven't
tested it very much, and we know that there are "issues" (what a nice way of
saying it).  One of the key new features (hint paths) of the AI won't be 
there, as there are no hint path nodes in the original maps for the monsters 
to follow.  There will be cosmetic glitches as well (conveyor belts don't
work the same way in our pack).  Needless to say, it's totally 
unsupported.. ;)

For those who don't read Blue's page, here's how to play the original Quake2
maps with the new monster AI (needless to say, you need to have the Rogue
pack installed).  Substitute whatever skill you want to play at for the "X":

\quake2\quake2 +set game rogue +skill X +map base1

If you're really looking for a challenge .. make it skill 3.  I keep saying
this over and over .. but a lot of the AI improvements we made are skill
level dependent.  Just one example, the flyers circle-strafe you 0%, 50%, 75%, 
or 86.67% of the time.  The daedalus do it a bit more .. they're supposed to
be tougher.

Has anyone notice the relatively obscure effects each of our new weapons have?
For example, the ETF Rifle .. it may just LOOK like a regular projectile
shooter.  Tried it in deathmatch?  Notice what it does to armor and power
armor?  It totally ignores armor (200 red = 0), and takes away twice as
many cells as regular damage.  The other two also have similar (in
style, not necessarily in effect) "special" characteristics.

Professor .. I like the sound of that .. 

10/29/1998
Thanks to everyone who's filling out our Ground Zero survey!  We really 
do appreciate the comments (both good AND bad).  I'm really surprised 
(and pleased) at a lot of the really small details that people are 
noticing and commenting on .. it's nice to know that folks out there 
are as nitpicky as I am!

If you haven't filled out our Ground Zero survey and you have something
to say after having played our mission pack (and who wouldn't?), what 
are you waiting for?!


http://www.rogue-ent.com/gz_survey/survey.html


Thanks!

10/1/1998
A couple of tips for having more fun in single player.

1)  Don't cheat .. or whatever you do, don't do a 'give all'.  It gives you
all the keys, etc. -- it really spoils the flow of the levels, and can lead
to LOTS of confusion.  If you must, do a 'give weapons' or 'give ammo' or
'give health' or 'give armor'.

2)  Play on a skill level above easy.  Many of the AI features we added
were disabled for easy .. to keep it easy.  No real dodging, blindfire, circle
strafing, etc (the list goes on) occur at that level.  On the other hand, 
nightmare is truly nightmarish, and there's a nice gradiation between 
the levels to satisfy every taste.  Go ahead, try it on nightmare.. 

9/28/1998
A continuation on tech support with Ground Zero (and other Quake II extensions)

One problem we've heard some reports of is entities not showing up,
working incorrectly, or other strange behavior that makes little sense. 
This is likely caused by a gamex86.dll file in your Quake II directory.
There should NOT be a gamex86.dll file there.  If there is, most likely
what happened is that some mod you installed didn't install correctly, for
whatever reason.  This won't happen to you if you're running one of the 
official mission packs (thanks to the installer), but it could happen to 
you if you're running one of the many popular add-ons.

This could also happen if you're running an older Linux version .. the early
versions were compiled with the wrong dll included (not really a dll on Linux,
but hey).  Get the latest version, it shoud clear things up.

Another one is having problems with the keyboard configuration in Ground
Zero.  To fix it, type the following into the console (hit the ` key to 
get the console window).  

exec default.cfg

This will overwrite any configuration information you may already have, and
replace it with the default configuration as specified in the manual.  The
only change we made after printing the manual was that we moved the Tesla
Mine to the 'm' key to make it more convenient.

The problem people are having is that when QuakeII fails to find a config.cfg
file in the game directory (in this case, the rogue directory) it first
checks the baseq2 directory for a config.cfg file, and ends up copying it
to the game directory .. instead of running the default.cfg file that's in the
pak file.  So you end up with your configuration for QuakeII, not the new
configuration.  Our apologies to anyone who had problems with this.

We will be updating our web page shortly with even more configuration 
information, but this should get you started.

For those of you viewing this in a web browser ..
Here's the link to our web page:
Rogue's Main Page

.. and directly to our support page:
Rogue's Support Page

Enjoy!

9/11/98
Woo whoo!  Just saw Ground Zero at the Electronics Botique in Town
East Mall .. $29.99, and well worth every penny.  Seeing it on the shelves 
makes it all worthwile.  I'm sure it'll be in other stores as well .. this is
just the first one I saw.

8/17/98
Wow .. gotten a lot of interest in our new Tag game.  For the curious, it's
a heck of a lot like our previous tag implementation for Quake Mission
Pack 2:Dissolution of Eternity.  We've made some changes, of course, but
the basic game has the same feel.

Yes, you'll still hear cries of "Goin' Quad!" coming from our office ..

8/16/98
Had a blast with that interview on Shooters.  Thanks to Blue for the
opportunity, hope you all enjoyed it too.

I realized, after the show, that we totally forgot to mention our new
multiplayer game .. Tag!  A lot like regular deathmatch .. but with a
significant twist.  One of the players is IT .. don't worry, you can't miss it.
You get bonus frags for killing the player who is it, as well as bonus frags
for killing when you are it.  Of course, if you manage to kill the person 
who is it, you get a nice bonus .. in the form of health and armor.  There's
more to it, of course, but that's enough for now.  Suffice it to say it's 
a heck of a lot of fun.

The whole AI puzzle of how to make a monster look smart in the 1-5 seconds it
lives is an interesting one.  The obvious one is to make the monster smart
enough to live longer (by dodging, ducking, weaving, taking cover).  The
other trick you can pull is to have one monster distract the player, while the
other monster does something smart.  Pursuit code is also very important,
so the players can't just hop out of sight, figure out the strategy, and
pop back in and mow the monsters down at the player's liesure.  It's quite
a sight to see a monster take a plat after a player ..

Ah well, enough for now.  Have a nice day.

7/30/98

Wow, it's late.  Wow, I'm tired.  Just saw some models from our animation.
Those Russians are good!  I'm duly impressed.

Working hard on the game, getting all the stuff tweaked out just right.  You'd
be amazed how interesting of a problem our tesla mines pose for monsters, for
example.

Turrets, Medics, Gunners, and Widows, oh my!

Now, if there was only a way to get my to-do list to SHRINK instead of grow
every day, I'd be a much happier man ..

Old plans:
----------



News on the DVD front .. Warner Brothers Home Video reports over $100 million
in revenue for DVD disks.

Good.

There's an article on www.nando.net (techserver) but since they have a pretty high turnover rate, the url probably won't work.

http://www.techserver.com/newsroom/ntn/info/070898/info17_17680.html

Buy DVD.  Blow off DIVX, tell everyone you know the same.  If you don't know why, check out:

http://techzone.weezy.com/dvd-faq.htm

P