Login: jc             			Name: Jonathan Clark
Directory: /u/jc                    	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Sat Sep 27 14:46 (CDT) on ttyp0 from jchome
   1 minute 42 seconds idle
Mail last read Sat Sep 27 15:50 1997 (CDT)
Plan:
Coder/Owner @ crack.com

my home page is at :
http://www.crack.com/about/jc

--------------------- NEW LOG (sorted new to old) ----------------------------
Sat Sep 27 17:46:09 CDT 1997
  Watch us at work.
  I hooked a temporary video camera to the following web page :

http://www.crack.com/about/jc/qc_dynamic.html

  This probably won't last long and it goes down whenever I'm
using my Win95 box.


Sat Sep 20 13:41:44 CDT 1997
  Well, I caught my finger on fire playing with the memory alloy.
Yes, burnt flesh doesn't smell very good.  I came away with only the
tiniest of scars.  Anyway, how this stuff works is that like other
metals, if you heat it up you can form it into whatever shape you
like, when it cools it crystallizes.  Unlike other metals, however,
this crystallized shape is remembered even after it is bent into other
shapes.  When it is heated up it will try to go back to it's
crystallized shape.  The wire also acts as a resistor so when you
apply electric current to it it heats up causing it to seek it's
previous form.  I've gotten the wire to move weights as heavy as a
pound or two over distantances over an .5 inch.

Hmm. I guess I should say something about Golgotha..  We are busy
working on the demo we plan to release at the end of the month.  I've
been working on game-play things like ammo/refueling, take over pads,
and height map displays.  Because units have different "hill climbing"
capabilities the radar map darkens the areas of the map a unit can't
get to when you select it.  I excited about the computer strategy
planning stuff we are getting into.  The current AI attempt we are
trying is to get the computer to control land areas of the map and
applies chess-like algorithms to determine which areas of the map it
wants most.  The computer defines control of a land as area "Being
able to get more force there before anyone else".  This means the
computer realizes it can control an area without having to keep force
there.  i.e. If it controls all access point to an area it controls the
area.

I'm looking forward to playing the rush of strategy games comming out
in October, especially : Dark Reign, Star Craft, and Total
Annihilation.  Trey brought in "Prodigy" for our listening pleasure.
This band kicks ass.  I wonder how how long until games start having
sound tracks composed of samples from top-named artist soundtracks
like movies.




Wed Sep 10 21:29:06 CDT 1997
  I put a screen shot of our test program on the web site :
http://www.crack.com/games/golgotha/screenshots

  I sent some flowers to a girl without a signature because I wanted
her to guess at who sent them to her, but she was too smart for that
and called the flower company and immediatly emailed me a thank you.
Doh!  I've been dating more these days, but since my parents wouldn't
let me date when I was younger, I'm still fairly ackward at it.  I
hope I don't meet the "Mrs. Right" anytime soon because I'm sure to
screw it up.

  I'm supposed to be getting some robot parts this week.  I got a
digital video camera, some motors, and some memory wire.  I've never
played with memory wire before and I'm curious as to what I can do
with it.  I think I can apply some of the path solving/strategy
planning of Golgotha to real robot AI.

What I did last week (Wed-Monday) :

  Oliy and I basically did the same things.  We made a path/strategy
test program that would let us try out different algorithms.  I tried
a couple of simple search algorithms, including best-first, random
search, and cellualar automota.  None of these worked very well, best
first went off on a tangent and wasn't very good about back-tracking.
Random was pretty random and I had trouble getting the cellualar
automota to work with directed graphs/cells.  Friday we both came up
with the same idea under different names.  Because the map is made up
of large open areas and solving a path within an open convex polygon
is just a straight line, we break the map up into convex polygons
connected as a graph.  Then solving this graph processes a lot fewer
nodes.  We can create these convex polygon using a constructive
geometery algorithm called dalaunay triangulation.

  What we've come up so far for computer strategy planning : Strategic
points are gathered from the level; building structures and points the
level designer lays down such as near an narrow passage way.  The
computer then forms goals on which strategic points it wants to take
over and which ones need defense.  It does this by calculating how
much force it can get there before the player can get there.  The hope
is that the computer can plan more than one goal in advance like a
chess playing program and make for more interesting game play.  We
don't have this completely figured out, but I think it's mostly there.

  One thing I would like to add is a "computer face" on the status bar
that shows emotion as to how the computer is thinking similar to the
face on the doom status bar.  If the computer is on the defensive then
it might show a face that looks scared.  Or if it might show : a jeer,
surprise, boredom, happyness.  The computer might even show a face
just to psych you out.  "Oh no, he knows something I don't".  This
would make playing the computer a little more like playing another
person.

Tue Sep  2 19:12:11 CDT 1997

  I've gotten undo/redo working in the editor and I'm working on
speeding it up for some operations that save too much information.
Basically I just do a limited save game before each editor operation.
This is faster than it sounds and allows to use the save load/save
code for save games, editor saves, and undo saves.
 
  I finished making dynamically loaded object types more robust.  You
can now create new object types that can have their own build icons,
cost, and a sound effect that gets played when they are built by the
player.  As before they can also save/load themselves, think, and draw
as they like.  You can also load and unload new object in the middle
of the game with dlls.  I still need to come up with a simple way for
users to manage dlls.  For starters I was thinking of setting aside a
plugin directory and load any dll's in it on startup.  I haven't done
much work on allowing editor plugin's yet.  But I think that making an
object plugin will be simple enough that anyone who can compile a
program can make their own.


Sun Aug 24 14:47:40 CDT 1997

 

  In reference to recent .plan comments made by certain developers at
Apogee, Crack, and id.  We are in the business of making games and
selling them, we are not politicians.  Making public personal attacks
against other developers is uncool in my book.  Your .plan files are
public information.  Though a .plan file was typically a place to
express personal opinions, it has become a general broadcast medium.
Watch what you say.

 


  I've been working on the level editor.  Rather descibe it, here is a
screen shot :
http://crack.com/games/golgotha/screenshots/level_edit1.jpg   The four
colored button in the lower right corner are for teams.  Each object
and tile is owned by a team and tinted accordingly.  Some new terrain
features include height bitmap export/import (using .tga).  This allows
you to load it up in your favorite paint program and airbush a general
height field layout and load it back into the map without effecting
the buildings/objects in the map.  The floating tile picker window
shows you tiles you can plop down of flood fill with.  Some of the
peices are flat and follow the contour of your height map and some are
3d.  The 3d objects spin around in the floating tile picker window
when the mouse cursor is on top of them, so you easily tell what it
looks like in 3d.  The movie controls are at the button of the screen
and act much like VCR controls.  You lay down camera, target, and
object control points and a smooth curve forms.

Some new game features we are working on, but are not complete include :
  - bridges that you can drive over and under
  - tunnels through mountains
  - caverens that you hide your troops in.
  - secret underground passage ways that lead from one base to another,
      great for trading troops with allies or surprise attacks
      against enemies. yes!!!
 
  - ground friction, vehicle power, and general physics
    different vehicles will be able to travel of differently sloped terrain.
    This means your heavy tanks will have to take longer paths to get places,
    while climbing vehicles that can scale tall mountains.
    Hill top fortress will be very useful.
    Ice covered levels will difficult to navigate for non-snow equiped
      vehicles.    

  The software version is semi-working again and we are working on
egytion & ice levels to show with the next demo, which should be out
in a couple of weeks.  Things are booking along pretty well, and I'm
very excited about secret tunnels.


Mon Jul 28 10:28:28 CDT 1997

  Hello... is this thing on?
  Hmm.  Haven't updated my plan in a while.  I went to Murray's
(artist for abuse) wedding this weekend with Duong (artist/designer
for abuse).  We got him a huge inflatable ball for a wedding present.
It's nearly as big as a person.  He just didn't seem the type to go
apeshit over silverware.

  I haven't had any crazy visions/inspirations lately.  I think it's
still demo burn out.  I've got about 6-7 ideas I want to explore,
but currently I don't have the motivation.  

  I'm working on the openGL port to the SGI O2.  I'm having to use
dbx, which is quite up to snuff with gdb.  openGl so far seems like a
pretty easy interface to use, it's very similar to Glide.  I'm having
to make the game run 32bpp (which should look better with shading).



Wed Jul 16 18:35:20 CDT 1997
  I got my BWM Z3!  Cool, cool, cool.  I got sunburned the first day.
Convertables are so much fun to drive at night.  
http://www.crack.com/about/jc/bmwz3_1.jpg
http://www.crack.com/about/jc/bmwz3_2.jpg

  I am rewriting a lot of the rendering code to use a new api.  This
api, is much simpler and state-based rather than context based.  I had
to give up on the ability to have threaded rendering, but speed is
more important and most accelerated libraries don't support this
(Glide, OpenGL).  D3d supposedly does, for what that's worth.



Fri Jul 11 10:42:41 CDT 1997
  Golgotha works for 3dfx under linux.  It kinda sucks without proper
thread support, but very useful for development.

Thu Jul 10 13:45:30 CDT 1997
  I just got Glide (3dfx's graphics library) for Linux.  I'm thinking
of making the Linux version hardware accerated only.  I'm starting to
make the linux version work with glide, and looking into what needs to
happen to do OpenGl for SGI, which is supposed to be on display at
SIGgraph.


Wed Jul  9 23:22:12 CDT 1997
  We've got the demo uploaded a ftp site where press & publishers can
download it with a password.  Email me if you are a member of the
*any* press, or a publisher.  This is still 3dfx only because we have
a few sorting problems to patch up (z buffers are handy that way). 

  Hopefully, now we can settle down and do real work rather than demos
all the time.  I'm trying to figure out how to make a tripod character
walk over 3d terrain with inverse kinematics.  Should look really
cool.  Any know of books that talk a lot about physical based
animation?  I want to make my own modeler/animation tool with 3d
painting for Golgotha II.  Knowing me, this will probably include be
built into the game.  :) ooh baby.

  Kevin taught me how to drive stick today.  I still can't do the
hills very well.  I can see the appeal, but I still like to have a
hand free for holding coffee.  I also received a nice hickey from a
very passionate hockey puck kiss today.  Roller hockey rules.  If you
are in the Austin area and want to play (7:30pm) email me.

back to de books.

Mon Jul  7 13:55:51 CDT 1997

I went to a Super Hero costume party this weekend.  I was the Riddler
from batman with pink spiked hair, looking something like a punk
rocker.  I meet Laura Craft from Tomb Raider and the Quake polygonal
dude.  American bested me in Sumo Wrestling and some inflatable
obstacle race which I finished with my big pants at my knees.  Richard
set off way too many fireworks (1 hours worth).  One of the cops
working the party was a Riddler too! and he told me how he let Chris
Roberts and Garriot off easy for speeding tickets. :) Alas, there were
very few single women there, but it was a very fun time.

Fri July 4th

Got the demo out to the testers.  Mixed reviews.  A few important bugs
to fix.  People are a little confused about what stage we are at.  I'd
say we are about 50-60% done right now, and it's looking pretty sweet.
We will be burning CD's for press & publishers this week and shipping
it out.  If you are part of the press and aren't on our press list,
email ddt@crack.com now.

Thu Jul  3 22:01:23 CDT 1997

Well, I got (and continue) to get a lot done :

* object buttons actually build
* added fire delay on missles
* radar view can be clicked on takes you there
* resize level in edit works with movies
* fix objects think after delete
* take out object from window list
* startup menu
* background image to make editor prettier
* add new buttons for bilding from stephen
* get new status bar from stephen
* maximize window under glide so mouse can't escape
* better font now 10 pixels tall
* reorient bomb for jet
* page flipping bug in editor
* strafeing, use ',' and '.'


Tomorrow, we are going to release a demo to people who want to help
...................................
(We've gotten our testers thanks)
..................................


Tue Jul 1 13:22:25 CDT 1997

The radar map looks better now.  I used the lowest mip map level of
the textures from the terrain to render a minature view of the map
with lighting and orthographic projection.  I also added money, and
icons you can click on to build things.  I'm working on a resource<