Login: jc             			Name: jc
Directory: /home2/jc                	Shell: /usr/local/bin/bash
On since Wed Nov 25 12:42 (CST) on ttyp0, idle 0:09, from 168.191.153.39
Mail last read Fri Nov 20 23:05 1998 (CST)
Plan:
Nov 25. 1998


   There is a project underway to do additional development on
Golgotha under the GPL license over at golgothaforever.org.  I'm a big
supporter of OpenSource projects and I have long wanted to see if a
video game could be developed under the same model as Perl or Linux.
Currently golgothaforever.org is hosted by Linuxgames.com which is a
commercial entity .  Unfortunately they has added banner adds to the
web pages and ads to the bottom of each email on the mailing list.  I
feel this is not in the spirit of an OpenSource project, which is a
labor of love.  After bitching about this fact, LinuxGames decided it
wasn't appropriate for them to be hosting us either.  So... my
question is, is anyone feeling very generous and willing to host an
OpenSource game for free (i.e. no adverts!).  I'm aware of places such
as lowrent.org and netpedia.org which offer free web hosting to
OpenSource projects, but they can't handle the size of the data we
need (~1Gig over time, ~100MB initially).  Also at least one person
would need to be able maintain the web site and associated CGI scripts
which would require some level of trust.  A Linux server would be best
as most OpenSource developers seem to be Linux people.  I will forward
your responses to the Golgotha mailing list.  Thanks!

    I have been an casual participant in the project and from what
I've seen so far there are some talented people working on the
project.  If you are interested in getting into the game industry, I
think this project can afford you much the needed experience to get
that initial job.  I wouldn't be surprised to see companies
specifically going after such developers.  In other news........

   I move to San Jose next week!  My email at jc@crack.com should
continue to work.  It's a bit of a change to get back into the
confidential frame of mind for my new company.  When I initially
started making games, we were very tight lipped about our game, and we
wouldn't even tell our friends.  There was no reason for this paranoia
and near the end of Crack.com I felt at ease telling anyone anything
about Golgotha.  The change in attitude occurred as I noticed several
facts.  1) Other game companies don't want your ideas.  Seriously.
The designers working at those companies want their ideas to be
implemented.  2) Other games companies don't have any sort of magic
bullet that allows them to develop games 2x faster than you.  If you
disclose every fact about your game, even the source code, other
companies couldn't take it and bring a product to market faster than
you, assuming you are a competent programmer.  When you first get into
the industry you have no idea how good other people are.  Games are
highly bottlenecked by engineers and the number of engineers who can
be involved on the core engine of a game is limited.  Microsoft with
all of it's money and developers couldn't get Quake to market any
faster than id.  Look at ion storm, who has spent enormous amounts of
money (in the wrong places!)  trying to get a derivative game out in
less than a year.  3) Chances are someone else already thought of your
idea, sharing information can find holes in your plan at an earlier
stage.

Enough banter.  Happy Thanksgiving!