Andy Taylor
Technical Lead and Chief Idiot: Classified


Feb 26 2001

Well, much has happened since my last update. It's been a trying time, hence my silence. We've been taken over by Infogrames since my last update, so big changes all around there. We've also been through three new game design proposals since RuneMaster, each one of them have been turned down.

Finally, I have a project however. I can't give out any details officially as yet, but it's an XBox title. I've been working with the XBox now for a few weeks now and it's a cool machine; plenty of power and easy to program thanks to its DX 8 implementation. Over the coming months I'll try to update more with our XBox progress, (as I deftly tip-toe though our NDA agreement ;-)

By the way it was my birthday on Friday, so please send me lots of cake. I'm now 6 1/2 years old now.

Cheese of the day: Swiss.

---

Apr 10 2000

Mucho mucho good stuff happened since I last updated. GDC was pretty much a drag... some interesting stuff, but on
the whole pretty much a big advert for middleware and engine producers.

Just got back from the Sony DevCon 2000. Lots of good stuff there, programming tips, middleware producers. There are
a lot of clever people out there doing lots of clever stuff on PS2. Saw some amazing demo's, especially in the realm of
real-time landscapes and shadow systems.

Cheese of the day: Haddock.

---

Feb 23 2000

Had a day trip out to Epic the other day to see what they're up to on PS2. They've been working very hard. We saw
almost the full version of UT running, (somewhat slowly - but running), and they've done it in just 7 weeks! I can't
mention many details in fear of being smitten by the big bad Sony, but it's look very good.

Welcome Mike Baldwin!!! RuneMaster is now officially a 3 person team. Mike will be helping out on the engine, before
going onto full game development. He's primarily going to be delving into Maya and writing our export tools. We're
also interviewing for our art lead at the moment, so at the last the projects on it's way.

Cheese of the day: Cheddar.

---

Feb 10 2000

Just got back from a great, (but exhausting), two-day meeting with the engine team in Salt Lake. We're going to produce
such a kick-ass engine for PS2! The team has some really good ideas for the engine, we should be able to produce some
very good looking games.

Cheese of the day: Brie.

---

Feb 4 2000

We have a programming/3D applicant coming in a few minutes. I'm hoping he'll fit the bill and we can finally start 
moving forward on our game engine. We have big plans in-store for the engine, things that people haven't ever seen,
(on console or PC). More details later ;-)

Cheese of the day: Wensleydale.

---

Feb 2 2000

Well, the PS2 dev-kit is here, I've had it for about a month now. It has a learning curve no-man has ever seen before.
I'm enjoying myself though. This machine is just mental, the power and flexibility of the hardware will keep it ahead
of the pack for years.

Cheese of the day: Edam.