Login: landon         			Name: Landon Montgomery
Plan:
11-10-98

Anyone out there who employs the services of
a GOOD financial service (payroll), please
refer them to me.  We use ADP right now and
I'd like that to change soon.


10-28-98

Wow!  Thanks for all the replies regarding
my search!  You guys (and girls) have been
so helpful.  Now, if only the local Barnes
& Noble were the same way...


10-28-98

Man...this thing is dusty!  I'm after some info...
I'm trying to find a work of fiction written
entirely from the first person.  Book.  Not
short story.  Not Poe, Sherlock Holmes, or
The Green Mile.  Anyone know of any?

Trespasser comes out today!  WOO!  I'm very excited
about this title.  It looks very cool.  But see,
I'm the kind of guy that spent way too much
time making and baking bread in U7.

I have a cat-parrot (a carrot?).  I have a fairly
recent addition to the family in the form of a
3 month old kitty named Chester.  Fruity lips.  

Anyhow, he perches on my shoulder and watches me work
here at home for hours on end.  Just watching what's
going on.  Doesn't get bored or anything.  Sleeps
from time to time but comes around to watch some more...
Maybe I can get him to build LODs...hmm...


8-13-98

Three updates in as many days...gotta
get control of myself...

Hey Action Quake guys...a few of us here
are seriously addicted to playing action
quake now...so, um, like release that new
version soon and stuff.  Looks damn cool.


8-12-98

WOW!  Just last week I was scavanging for
a gamepad around the office...I just can't
play any kind of racing sim on the PC
without one.  Well, guess what shows up today
in abundance?  Logitech sent us a whole bunch
of crescent fresh Thunderpads!  Very freaky
considering I never even said one word about
needing one.  Except to Billy.  Hmmmm.

So thanks a bunch for those mister Logitech
dudes.  And thank you John Harris over at EA
for getting our precious little E3 cream shot
posters sent to us.  The new pride of the office.

8-11-98

Damn...I'm sitting here in my office looking out
the window and watching Dallas (and the Ion Storm
building) being painted with one hell of a lightning
storm.  I bet it's still 103 out there though.

Oh yeah...quite unrelated here...but is anyone out
there running a '91 or later MR2 Turbo in SCCA SOLO2
events?