[idsoftware.com]
Login name: jcash     			In real life: John Cash
Directory: /raid/nardo/jcash        	Shell: /bin/csh
Last login Sat Mar  1 17:38 on ttyp3 from idtokay
Plan:
The insurance company finally figured out my car was
totalled (the guys at the shop knew it after about
5 minutes).  I got a new M3 this weekend; black one
this time - they didn't have any red ones and I didn't
have time to wait for one.

I checked out the client side bots last night.  Grrrrr.
The R&D that went into them is cool, but the results
are most definitely not.  I guess somebody wants us
to have to take time off from Quake2 to stop this. <sigh>


QuakeC Tips
-----------
Don't use the chain field.  If you need to make a linked
list, make your own link field.  chain gets written by
some of the builtin functions (like findradius) so your
list can get screwed.

If you don't want an entity to touch things anymore, don't
change it's .touch to SUB_Null.  Instead change it's .solid
to SOLID_NOT.  Both ways work, but having the the entity
still solid means that the engine must still go through all
the steps of detecting collisions and calling the null
function (IOW, it's slower).

If an entity does not need to think then just do not update
it's nextthink field.  Having a think function that really
doesn't do anything is bad for the same reasons as the touch
function in the previous tip.

Do not have an entity think more often than is necessary.
This is mainly to keep your prgs net friendly.  Let's say
you have an entity that thinks every 0.05 seconds (20
times per sec, the default max rate for a dedicated server).
Yes, you could do some really cool stuff.  The problem is
that you are potentially causing that entity to be updated
in every single message from the client to the server; it
depends on what you do in the think, but it quite likely.
Remember: The bigger the messages, the more likely it is
the clients will see lag.


w00p list
---------
M3's (red or black)
Girl Scout cookies (Samoas)

llama list
----------
anybody who uses a client side bot
	(without making it *REALLY* obvious it's a bot)

--------------------

John Cash

jcash@idsoftware.com

