Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: John Cash
Email: jcash@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 09/26/1997 22:25:06 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contest results
===============
Yes, my contest was serious. Well, serious enough.  IOW, it was peppered with sarcasm,
but I did mean it.  The contested was opened at 3:12pm CST.  The winning entry arrived
at 4:30pm.  The winner is: Slipgate - AKA Ismail Saeed, Webmaster, http://www.quake2.com.
Slipgate, send me your postal address and I'll make sure a copy of Q2 makes it your way.
Unfortunately you blew the extra credit question so signatures are not promised.  But ya
never know, maybe we'll be in a good mood and sign it anyways.  Chris Price of Clan Shlib,
although not a journalist or web p1mp, was the first to get the extra credit right.  I
guess it wasn't *that* hard; I mean, even *Blue* got it right ;-)  Blue was the first
journalist/web p1mp to get both correct answers.  John Carmack is id's lead programmer
without a doubt, but I am the lead on the Quake II project.  I've gotten over 100 email
entries now and I'm sick of hearing the incoming mail sound!

Thanks to all who've sent me info on that Siemens unit.  Man, OBD-II is a pain in the... rear.

How about some Q2 info.  I know I've not said much about Q2 in quite a while, but that's only
because we've been working so hard on it to get it ready on time.  "For this Christmas" is
a lot tougher than "When it's done".  Here's a few tidbits for you who like to mess with the
QC/progs.  It's not exactly news, but, yes, we changed to using a DLL for the progs.  There
are just so many good things for progs programmers it's hard to know where to start.  The
physics has been moved into the game DLL.  So now you can even change the laws of physcis!
All aspects of the player's view can be controlled by the progs, note I said "can be" not
"will be at all times".  CTF and Quake Rally will be soooo much eaiser for Q2.  The progs
actually make up about half of the Q2 source, so when we release the progs source, you'll be
getting a serious chunk of code.  We also have entity teams.  For things like doors, plats, etc
a team is a group of entities that move (or don't move) as a unit.  That way you can make a
set of doors so that if one gets blocked they both stop.  A million and one fun uses for that.
You can also makes teams of items; very useful for DM.  Teamed items work like this: when the
map loads one (and only one) of the ietms will be spawned.  When somebody picks up that item
there is the usual respawn delay time and then one of the items on the team is randomly
selected to respawn.  For example, you could put a quad and a invulnerability on a team so that
they are both on the level but never at the same time.  Or you could put 5 RL on a level as a
team so that you can't camp on it because you don't know which one will cme back next.  I'll try
to give ya more info later... maybe a little less stream of conciousness next time.

--------------------
John Cash
jcash@idsoftware.com
