Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: John Cash
Email: jcash@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 02/17/1998 10:26:14 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Point Release (3.12)
--------------------
It's still in testing.  Real Soon Now.  Special note to "spies":
RSN does NOT mean 48 hours - I wish it did, but it does not.  It
does not mean it will be longer than that either.  The last couple
of fixes have been quite trivial.  Special thanks to Zoid for being
amazingly patient.  CTF is dependant on this version, so I am sure
he is going crazy waiting for us to release it.

Diet Update
-----------
Good news this time.  No, make that Great news.  It's Girl Scout Cookie
time!!!  You know what that means... Hellrot has 6, count 'em, 6 boxes
of Samoas waiting to be devoured.  Cookie, caramel, chocolate, coconut,
and 15% of your daily fat needs all in one delicious bite sized snack.
A definite must for the Cash diet!

I do NOT want emails about the following things.  1) Samoas are NOT
Caramel Delights.  Maybe is some areas controlled by the health nazis
they are, but here in Tejas we still get the Real Deal.  2) They ARE
the best of the girl scout cookies.  If you prefer thin mints or the
peanut butter ones, that's fine.  Make the case to the world in your
plan or on your web page, but do not bother trying to change my mind;
you can't.

Not Quake
---------
I've played a few games that aren't Quake and decided to give my opinion
on the off chance that anyone will care ;-)

Ultima Online.  There's just no polite way to say it, so... it sucks.
This game has a ton of potential, but it's very far from realizing it.
You have a great big world, towns, forests, mines, caves, lots of
people, and a million ways to die.  It's like this for a starting player.
If you do anything even remotely fun in town, the guards kill you.  If
you go outside town, other players kill you.  The only way to stay alive
is to be a law biding citizen, work, and save your money until you can
afford to do something fun.  Sorry, but that's a little too much like
real life.  This is a game, I want fun.. not real life.  One more thing.
Why do players start out so weak that they can be killed by a fluffy little
bunny rabbit?  I mean, come on, at 5'10" and 125 lbs I'm not exactly Paul
Stud here, and even I can kill a rabbit!

Total Annihiliation.  This is a good DuneII/C&C/Warcraft style game.
There are some parts of the design I'm not sure about, but I haven't
played it enough to be certain.  For example, I'm not too fond of
the Big Bertha.  Well, they're fun if you have them, but not when the
other guy does.  My problem with it is that it is a very long range
attack that is indefensible.  Given it's range, damage, and rate of
fire I think they're probably more effective than a nuke.  But I need
to play more to be certain.  Anyways, a fun game.

Jedi Knight.  Hey, it's a Star Wars game so it starting out with a
built-in plus.  I haven't quite finished it yet (just started last
weekend), but I do like it.  The levels may not have much architectual
detail, but some of them are fickin' huge.  The controls are finally
good; that was the weak point of Dark Forces.  I think I liked the
weapons in DF better.  I really like the one on one jedi levels.
Overall a really good game.  Oh yeah, I'm all the way to the dark side.

--------------------
John Cash
jcash@idsoftware.com
"Hellrot"