Name: John Cash
Email: jcash@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake Arena
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Blue, you ignorant slut... (old SNL reference for the kids
in the crowd).  Thin Mints?  C'mon!  I mean, they're not bad...
pretty good actually.  But they're just a little mint cookie
with a thin, thin, thin coating of chocolate.  Samoas.. now
there's a real man's cookie.  A big ol' cookie ring smothered
in a thick coat of chocolate, caramel, and coconut.  Both of
them are good enough to qualify as an appetizer on the Cash
Diet Plan, but the Samoas are preferred and the Thin Mints
are just an acceptable alternative.  Oh yeah... for anyone his
missed out "debate" on this before...  I do NOT mean those
politcally correct (read: lame) Caramel D'lights.  I mean the
real deal - Samoas.  I don't know if they still sell them
everywhere, but here in Texas (where the men are men and the
sheep are nervous) you can still get 'em by the truckload.

And now for something completely different...  About a year ago
a did a mini "game review" of non-id games I had been playing
and what I thought of them.  As you may recall I was rather harsh
on Ultima Online (although not harsh enough to get a slime
named after me!).  Well, I have an update for you.  Not too long
ago a few friends started playing UO.  They started telling me
how cool it was and that I really needed to try it.  I told them
I had and what I thought about it.  We talked about it a bit and
they convinced me to try it again... and I'm glad they did.  My
hat is off (well, it would be if I wore one) to the UO crew down
at Origin.  They took what I thought was a pretty well borked game
and stuck with it, listened to the players, and fixed things. It
still ain't perfect but, unlike before, it is actually fun now.
I'm "The Respectable Hellrot, Master Warrior" on Catskills.  Oh
yeah, a word to the UO development team: client side cheaters suck;
I know what you're going through.  But please don't let the GMs
go overboard.  Somebody accused me of using UOE and called in a
GM who then railed on me for about 15 minutes.  I didn't even
know what the h*ll UOE was at the time; I'd only been playing
(again) for two days.  Fortunately there was an bystander who
was "kind enough" to point out what a newbie I was and that I was
too clueless to be using UOE.  Ummmm.. gee, thanks... kinda.

As far as Q3A goes, I don't have a whole lot to say right now.
Between Carmack's talks, magazines articles, and a couple of
game news sites I think enough info is getting out at this
point.  I wouldn't mind giving a talk sometime, but I know
now to schedule my own time seperate from Carmack's (yes Billy,
you told me so).

Speaking of news dudes... since Redwood got a blue car, does
that mean if Blue ever gets a car he'll get a red one?

In my family news (if anyone is bored enough to still be reading
at this point) I have a couple of updates.  My wife and I had
our 14th wedding anniversary on the 3rd.  Also my youngest son
Joey (the axe murderer / Tekken3 genius) turned 4 on the 5th.

Non id games I've been playing (no reviews, just games I'm liking
enough to keep laying).  Playstation - Gran Turismo.  N64 - Banjo
Kazooie.  PC - Ultima Online.

Music I'm listning to (am I digging deep to make this a big plan
update, or what?  I mean, who really *cares* what we listen to):
Marylin Manson - Mechanical Animals, Rob Zombie - Hellbilly Deluxe.

FYI - If I ever get some actual spare time, I'd like to move all
of this crap to my own web site.  Keep this plan purely focused on
id stuff so people that don't give a rats *ss about all the non-id
stuff don't have to wade through it.  Hopefully I'd be able to
generate a few hits, but I don't think Blue or Redwood are gonna
lose any sleep over it ;-)  I'm thinking of a couple of sections
for the page.  The Cash Diet Plan section, of course.  Also some
kind of a Cynics Viewpoint area where I'd express my views on
whatever I felt like was a load of crap (like the changing of
5 House seats in the elections being a "mandate" of anything).
Possibly a personal stuff section to cover the family stuff
(mainly for my relatives to see).  Anwyays, just an idea.  We'll
see if I get time to do any of it.

--------------------

John Cash
jcash@idsoftware.com
"Hellrot"