Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: John Cash
Email: jcash@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake Arena
Last Updated: 11/30/1998 19:56:46 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is not id or gaming related, so if way off topic stuff
doesn't interest you, go read another .plan file and have a
nice day.



I am in Customer Support HELL... and I am sure I am not alone.

Sorry, but I'm really pissed off and this is a nice plave to vent.
A month ago I decided we had a problem at home.  With my boys
playing games and my wife doing "wife stuff" on our home machine,
we were having an increasing number of disputes over machine time.
So I whipped out the ole' VISA, headed on down to the CompUSA,
and bought us a shiny new computer.

Well I got it home, unpackd it, and set the machine up.  Rats.
Wouldn't you know it; there was a cable missing.  It was the
cable from the sound card to the speakers, so I figure things
could be worse and finish setting up.  I borrow the cable from
my other machine and everything checks out fine.  Cool.

The machine is a Hewlett Packard Pavilion Model 8395.  I look
through the pile o' paper and find the number to call.  It's
a toll call (1-208-323-4663), but hey it is up 24/7 so I
figure that's not too bad since it is a saturday night.  I call,
go through the mandatory menus and get to a Real Live Human
in a pretty short amount of time (like 2-3 minutes).  The woman
was very helpful, took all the info, and said the cable would
be sent UPS ground.  Problem handled, I go start installing
stuff.

Two weeks pass.  No cable.  Grrrrr.  I call HP back.  Guess what?
No record of my call.  "Maybe it was that database crash we had
recently".  Whatever.  Another cable order is put into the system.

Ten more days pass (IOW plenty of time for UPS ground).  Still no
cable.  I call my favorite support number.  Oh joy, a 25 minute
wait at my expense.  I tell the friendly person the tale so far.
They tell me that HP has been moving inventory between some
warehouses; that must be the problem.  But that's all done so
everything should be fine.  I remind them how long I've already
been waiting for the cable and they go off and get permission
to ship another one 2nd day air.  All right, NOW we're getting
somewhere, right?

Bzzzzzt!!!  Three (business) days later (for some reason I still
had some patience left at that point) I still have no cable.  I call
again.  Another wait to get to a Real Live Human.  They can't seem to
pull up status to find out what happened, so they order up another
cable so be shipped 2nd day.  Oh happy day, surely everything will
go as it should now.

WRONG.  Two business days later (patience rapdily approaching zero)
none of the many cables have managed to find my home.  Yes, I've
confirmed my address every time.  That was today.  So I called one
more time full of anticipation.  Oh boy, another long wait... about
15 minutes this time.  We run through the usual questions (I have 'em
memorized by now) and he goes to see what's wrong.  Hurray, a new
excuse - those cable are now on backorder!  "Don't worry", says he,
"things are usually off backorder withing a week".  Just to be clear,
I ask if he's actually asking me to wait another 10 days (7 to get off
back order, 2 for shipping, and one more because I'm so damn generous).
"Well, hopefully not, but I guess so" is the reply.  Seriously close
to crawling through the phone at this point, I tell him to make a note
in the case file for me.  "Sure, what?", he says.  "If I do not
have that cable in 10 days I am returning the damn machine", say I.
"Well, I can't guarantee 10 days sir".  Heh.  Like I give a rats ass
at this point!  I can return this machine, get the exact same box
(but with a cable this time), and let HP eat the cost of an otherwise
perfectly good machine.  Then my little problem is their bigger problem,
but that's fine by me at this point.

So there you have it.  Sure I could just go to any number of places
and buy myself a cable that would work, but why should I?  It's not
like this should have been a difficult problem for them to resolve.
Take a cable, ship it to me - case closed.

Anyone from HP out there listening?  The clock is ticking...

--------------------

John Cash
jcash@idsoftware.com
"Hellrot"
