Name: John Cash
Email: jcash@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake Arena
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q2
--
Like Christian said, "This is, for all intents and purposes, the
last official release of Quake II."  I know the current game dll
source has been a long time coming; sorry it took so long.


The rest of this is not id or gaming related, so if off topic
stuff doesn't interest you, go read another .plan file and have
a nice day.

HP
--
Thanks to Chris Dodsin at HP, I now finally have my long lost
speaker cable.  I don't know just where in HP Chris is, but in
my book this guy ought to be in charge or something.  It troubles
me knowing that the only reason my problem has been resolved is
because I was pissed off, vented here, and was fortunate enough
to have somebody who could do something read it.  Most people
don't have that luxury and would still be sitting at home fuming.

I got a lot of emails about this; I kind of figured I would.  Many
people with similar or worse stories about many companies, not just
HP.  I'd hazzard a guess that HP's customer support is "normal".
Most problems get resolved normally, but you really don't care about
that when you're the one who's problem does not.  Quite a few of you
were asking why HP, or why not some other brand, or why not just
build my own?  I didn't build my own because I just don't have the
time right now.  Why not a mail order brand (Gateway, Micron, Dell)?
I've owned machines from all three of them before and had the machine
been for me, I might have gone with one of those.  But this particular
machine is for my wife and younger son to share.  Four year olds are,
shall we say, "rough" on equipment.  I've gotten good durability from
HP equipment in the past and that was a big factor.  Some of HP's
early machines were certainly substandard, but their newer machines
(at least the top end models that I have used) have been quite good.
I don't think they've reached the same level of quality as their
printers and calculators yet, but they are still pretty darn good.
I'm not trying to sound like an HP add or anything, I just don't want
to give people the wrong idea.  I like HP; I was just really pissed
off about the problem I was having with what should have been a simple
issue.

Web Page
--------
I kinda mentioned about doing my own web page a little while ago.  Thanks
for the hosting offers and all; I guess you guys have never seen a web
page designed by a programmer! ;-)  I actually have had my own little
domain for a while now, I just haven't had the time to do anything much
with it.  Right now it mainly servers to provide email accounts for my
wife and kids (I don't believe it is appropriate to have members of my
family with an idsoftware.com email address).  If I ever get a round tuit
I'll out something together and let people know where it is so you can
all go and laugh at my feeble web design efforts.  I actually did make a
single web page before and, ummm, it doesn't totally and completely blow.
http://www.clan311.org/311/cash/

--------------------

John Cash
jcash@idsoftware.com
"Hellrot"