Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Programmer
Project: Quake 4
Nickname: Superfly
Web Page: Rick's Web Site TurtleCam! mEATwagon Cult
Last Updated: 05/28/2004 16:47:42 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/28/2004
 Technical Artist Position for Quake 4:
      Raven Software is looking for a Technical Artist for the Quake 4 PC title. We prefer a person with a strong understanding of the technical side of creating art assets, such as creating textures and world models, generating shaders, and proficient in scripting. We also prefer a candidate with strong drawing and painting skills and an ability to model hi and lo-poly models in Maya and/or Lightwave. Programming experience is a plus. A background with Quake 3 shaders, a familiarity with the Quake 3 Editor, and experience in animation and effects are also a definite plus, but not required.  

 Responsibilities:
      - Create art assets, scripts, animations, shaders, and effects for Quake 4. 

 Requirements:
      - 2D drawing and painting skills.
      - Experience using Photoshop.
      - Experience creating textures and world models for games. 
      - Experience building hi-poly and lo-poly 3D models in Lightwave or Maya or has experience with another 3D package and a willingness to switch.
      - Experience with shaders and proficient in scripting.
      - Self-motivated, with a strong artistic vision that allows them to complete tasks without supervision.

   Candidates should either email their resume and sample works to
      Kevin Long    klong@ravensoft.com
   or Mail
      Raven Software
      C/O Kevin Long
      3 Point Place Suite 1
      Madison, WI 53719 

8/1/2003
   Have you got the DOOM II GBA DM skills to pay the bills?
 
   Caryn 'Hellchick' Law and I have decided to throw down at this year's QuakeCon. We're bringing our 
      Gameboy Advances, DOOM II on the GBA, and link cables, and we're challenging QuakeCon gamers to take us 
      on in an old-school DOOM 2 deathmatch...but on the GBA. 
 
   We'll be bringing some swag to give away to anyone who can beat us (and you have to beat both of us) -- 
      DOOM t-shirts from id, Raven t-shirts, GBA games, whatever we can scrounge up between now and QuakeCon. 
 
   If you want to take us on, you'll need to bring two things: your own Gameboy Advance, and your own copy of 
      DOOM II for the GBA. We'll bring link cables to link up.
 
   When and where: we're not sure yet. As soon as we nail down our QuakeCon schedules, we'll announce when 
      and where you can show up to take us on. 
 
   Practice up, and we'll see you there.

5/2/2003
   I saw Jewel this morning on the NBC Today show and she has completely switched her image to a Britney Spears pop star.
      I feel like she really sold out