Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Ld. Programmer / Network Admin
Project: ???
Last Updated: 02/02/1998 19:57:18 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2/2/98
   Part 4:
   I've decided that the best way to make sure everyone knows that progress
      is being made with h2world, I'll just put in multiple updates of things
      accomplished during the day, so:

   Daily Log:
      1.  Talked to Brian Raffel to finally get the ok to proceed
      2.  Got the latest quakeworld source from Zoid
      3.  Unzipped, compiled, and ran it
      4.  Checked the differences between H2's assembly and QW's assembly.
          Nothing major, so put in H2's assembly
      5.  Added some variables the assembly depended upon, debugged a bit,
          runs ok

   At some point, I'm going to release a new command shell for NT.  I've been
      working on this slowly in my spare time.  Mainly, it allows for
      "directory completion".  It works pretty well.  Too bad Microsoft
      didn't full implement Win32 for 95, or else it would be an all around
      solution.

   I'm also working on getting a new web server up.  This is to only host
      employee web pages.  It should be available in about a week, just need
      some more spare time.


   Part 3:
   Got the latest code from Zoid (Thanks man!)
   Set up the directories, compiled, and checking the differences between
      assembly files - no differences.


   Part 2:
   Here here:  http://www.gamepen.com/therapy/industrial/


   Part 1:
   Well, after months of doing work which I still can't get into, I've finally
      been given official time to work on H2World.  I'll be starting full time
      on it later this afternoon.  Next week, a few other programmers will
      be joining me to clean up the scripting code, to make it more net
      friendly (i.e. do stuff on the client side).

   I'll also include any minor bug fixes that have been done in the mission
      pack so far.  This will also include new .PAK files which will contain
      models that are about 1/3 less in size (so you should have less
      caching problems with machines that have 16 megs of memory).

   Of course, learning from past mistakes, no predicitions on when it will be
      available, but know that it is being worked on full time by myself,
      and with other programmers next week.

   Sorry for the delays, but you have to remember, that not everything is
      always under my control, atleast not yet :)
