Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Ld. Programmer / Network Admin
Project: H2World
Last Updated: 03/24/1998 22:27:59 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3/24/98
   Since people have been complaining that the GL version can be a little
      chuggy, I've added an option so that you can scale sprite graphics
      independently from other graphics.  This should cut down on some
      of the chugginess, while keeping texture quality for most of the world.

   If you do experience lag, you can try changing your "rate" or "pushlatency"
      rate indicates how much data / second the server is allowed to send to you
      pushlatency you generally want to set to the opposite of your ping 
         (i.e. if your ping is 330, set pushlatency to -330)

   These appear to be active servers:
      Raven:
         equalizer.ravensoft.com
         208.135.137.25:26950
         208.135.137.25:26960
      Others:
         208.220.34.36
         205.138.187.3

   In case you get annoyed by the taunts, you can turn them off by
      setting the console variable "talksounds" to 0

3/23/98
   We've replaced the server install program with just a zip file, so you
      can download the file reference below and start your own server!!!
      Install the zip into your Hexen2 directory.  Make sure you do a full
      directory expansion (so that it creates an HW subdirectory with files
      in it).

   More Servers.  These are only temporary servers:
      208.135.137.25:26950
      208.135.137.25:26960

   The GameSpy people are also running a server:  204.182.161.3

   You can download the HexenWorld Client Beta V0.09 from
      http://www.hexenworld.com/files/hwcl_b1.exe
   and the HexenWorld Server Beta V0.09 from 
      http://www.hexenworld.com/files/hws009.zip
 
   Remember that the first letter in Beta is B, which stands for Bugs.
      Expect some, embrace your bugs, and love your bugs.

   Scripting source code will not be released with this version, as it
      is still going under constant revisision.  This version also does
      not support the mission pack (i.e. the new character class), though
      we will be adding support for that this week and will be available
      in a future release.

   Be sure to check up on the HW Bug finger (h2w@mail.ravensoft.com).  
      Refer to the included documentation on how to report bugs, comments,
      character balance issues, etc.

   I'll be running the first server, which will be under the top entry
      of the address book in the multiplayer menu.  There are two new
      deathmatch levels included (hwdm1 and hwdm2).  hwdm2 will give you
      a preview of some of the graphics for the upcoming Mission Pack.

   One thing that I may have not mentioned is random class.  Every time you
      re-spawn, the server will pick a new class for you.  You can set this
      under the Multiplayer -> Options menu.

   PingTool (http://pingtool.telefragged.com) currently supports HW, and 
      GameSpy will be supporting it shortly (within a day or two).

3/22/98
   ARGH!   http://www.fox.com/pressrel.html

   Stupid Stupid Stupid Fox!   Like I want to buy another DVD player, so I can
      play their DIVX movies on.  Like I want to run a phone line to my
      DVD player.  Like I want to pay $xxx everytime I want to watch the movie.
      Like I want to pay $xxx to show off a cool scene to my friends.

   "Protect us from those video pirates" Fox cries!  You can't protect yourself.
      All of us who live in the gaming universe know that every protection
      scheme gets cracked.  The best way to "fight pirates" is to offer 
      quality products that people want to own.

3/20/98
   Hexen2World is now going to be referred to as HexenWorld

   The current plan:
      1. Release the last version to the alpha testers today (V0.08)
      2. Work over the weekend to get as much done as possible
      3. Release a public beta version of the server and client on
         Monday (V0.09)
      4. Work on bugs and intergrating mission pack stuff into HW

   Also, if you haven't sent in a response to the question below, please do so.
      People have been writing a lot about their opinions on the subject,
      and has been very interesting reading.

3/19/98
   Weekly Question:  How important is it that games coming out in 6 months
      or later have software rendering support?  i.e. does the thought of
      hardware only games scare you?  Or are you looking forward to games
      that can take advantage of hardware?

   Send your opinion to opinion@mail.ravensoft.com

3/16/98
   Got the gl version mostly working - few minor glitches.  Next update to the
      alpha testers will be Tuesday and will include the gl version.  Probably
      will also include a few new DM levels that will not be shipped with
      the upcoming Mission Pack.

   If everything goes well with this test, then we may release a beta version
      of both the client and server to the general public late this week.

3/14/98
   Started work on the gl version of h2w.  Should be included in the next
      alpha update to the testers.

3/12/98
   H2W testing is going great!  Thanks to all of those who continue to help
      test.  A public release of the client and server is very near, though
      this will be labeled as "beta".

   Kenn created a new deathmatch level for h2w which is being play tested for
      the first time today.  Looks great, Kenn!

3/10/98
   With all this talk about Q2 being banned in Germany, thought I would mention
      something a little closer to home.  A few months ago, Hexen2 was banned
      in Sam's Club (yes, in the U.S.) because of its cover.

3/7/98
   H2W testing is going extremely well.  Finding bugs, creating new ones :)

   I'll be expanding the testing group by another 20 or so on monday.

3/6/98
   People are now testing the initial alpha version.  Although it has its share
      of bugs at this stage, everyone I've asked so far indicates that it is
      very playable over the internet :)

3/4/98
   Just sent out an email to 41 people to help alpha test this weekend.
      If you didn't get chosen, don't worry, as there may be something in the
      near future.  I tried to select a wide range of applicants, from low
      pings, to high pings, to people in distant countries.

3/3/98
   Things are progressing well on H2W.  I'll probably notify the people who
      have been selected to help alpha test H2W sometime on Wednesday.  I'll
      be choosing around 20 to 30 people.

   The underlying practice that the programmers have been following on H2W is
      to make the weapons better for net play.  This has meant that some of
      the weapons may function slightly different or the effects will look
      different, but nothing too radically different.  In the end, they will
      most likely look better.

   1.  Checked off the few remaining files that needed updated from H2 to H2W
   2.  Fixed the rain system
   3.  Fixed a problem where the player could get stuck in rotated brushes
   4.  Added ping times to the deathmatch overlay
   5.  Investigating a problem where a particular teleporter gets you stuck

3/2/98
   "Windows 95 Aids Age of Empires Conquest"
   http://www.microsoft.com/windows/dailynews/022798.htm

   Microsoft sure does hype up their Win95 OS as some incredible piece of
      work, and without it, games such as AOE wouldn't exist.  Now I'm
      not criticizing AOE (it is a great game - a bunch of us have been 
      net playing it lately), but wasn't there a similar game that came out
      several years ago, that was made for DOS?   hmmm, the name Warcraft 2
      should ring a few bells.  Each game has cinematics, has a lot of 
      character animation (though AOE has a ton more then W2), each game 
      is in a higher resolution, cd music, etc.  The only surprising thing
      in the article was that they didn't mention Direct X.
 
2/26/98
   We are going to try to have a private alpha test of h2w over the weekend
      of March 7-8.  This private alpha test will only include the software
      renderer and the demo levels.  A server version will not be released
      (which dictates you must connect to a server we will be running).

   If you wish to be considered for the testing, you must be on a modem
      connection from 28.8 to 56 kbps.  You must have an ok ping time to our
      internet (try pinging to mail.ravensoft.com).  You must also be able to
      retrieve files via ftp.

   If you meet those requirements, send an email to h2w@mail.ravensoft.com
      with the following info:
         Name
         Age
         Location in the world
         Amount of experience with quake1, quakeworld, quake2
         Ping results from pinging mail.ravensoft.com  (paste the whole
            contents from the dos prompt)
         Computer specs (processor type, speed, ram, modem speed)
         Operating System (Win95 / NT4)

   Do not expect an email response, as I'm sure I will get swamped.  I will
      be selecting around a dozen or so individuals.  Also, this is not a firm
      date for when it will be tested, but just a likely date as the way things
      appear to be working out.

2/20/98
   1.  Put in the new splash screen
   2.  Few misc entity fields weren't being passed through the networking
   3.  Got all of the rendering changes made to H2 moved over to H2W.

2/19/98
   Survived skiing, though I still got the DamNathan (tm) cold virus.

   Work is progressing well, though I'm not at 100% strictly because of the
      cold.  All major components are in and functioning.  Nathan, Ron, and
      Steve are still busy going through all of the weapons and other effects
      (i.e. breakable brushes) and optimizing them.  I'll probably start
      concentrating on getting some of the rendering effects back in
      (translucency, etc).

   It appears that the best timing to release H2W would be near the mission
      pack's release.  This will allow us to release one version of H2W that
      works with both the retail and the mission pack.  The version will
      probably be both included on the mission pack CD as well as being
      available for download.

   It also appears that there may be two testing stages:  a private alpha
      and a public beta.  In both cases, people would be able to get only
      the client executeable and the "demo" pak file.  More on this later.

2/12/98
   Last update until Tuesday.  Going up to White Cap for a skiing outing with
      a bunch of people from Raven - should be a ton of fun!  In case you are
      interested, it is located near the top of Wisconsin.  5 hour drive from
      Madison.

   Nathan, Ron, and Steve are examining everything.  I expect that they should
      be able to do wonders with net optimization.  I've been mainly
      concentrating on areas of the code that they will be changing, so that
      it is in a final state for them.  Still don't have an approximate
      release date, though it is starting to take shape.

2/11/98
   1.  Gil's been taking some more of my time today still
   2.  Ron, Steve, and Nathan have all joined i