Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Ld. Programmer / Network Admin
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 06/13/1998 16:56:09 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6/13/98
   Having read Game Center's gripes about what's over and under-hyped
 report, I had to have a little chuckle about it.  Now if anything
      or anyone is to blame for most of these, wouldn't it tend to be the
      magazines themselves?

   For example, there have been plenty of articles and news on their site
      regarding John Romero and Daikatana - previews, screen shots, interviews,
      etc.  Yet, they are now proclaiming to the world that John Romero is
      over-hyped.  A little contradicting there, isn't it?

   Same thing with Quake2.  They pressed it, previewed it, and publicized it.
      Now they are saying it is over-hyped cuz they only played it two days.
      Even though it is still one of the most net played games of all time.
      Even though it has more mods than probably everything else combined.

   Their comment about AGP is quite funny.  Didn't know we game programmers
      must directly support AGP.  Hmmm, I must have missed that OpenGL AGP
      API.  And here all this time I thought AGP was just a special bus
      to allow video cards to access system memory at quicker rates, thus
      lowering the required ram needed on a video card, while giving you
      virtually unlimited texture ram.  

   3D Overhyped?  Seems to work pretty well on the PlayStation and N64.
      Why?  Cuz there isn't various 3d chipsets, some of which are just
      plain horrible and widely used.  If we all lived in a SLI VooDoo2 world,
      life would be grand.  But because the PC industry is so diverse with
      hardware configurations, making a game that runs well on all systems
      and looks pretty on the higher end systems is not an easy task, for
      both programming and designing.  3D hardware technology is fairly new
      to the end user, and the gaming industry is going through radical  
      changes.  Understanding and knowledge of the new world that we 
      are headed for must be possessed.
 
   In my opinion, if anything is over-hyped or under-hyped, generally, it
      has to do with the gaming magazines.  They are all trying to compete
      with each other, so they need exclusives, previews, screen shots, 
      demos, etc.  Some magazines almost appear to be afraid of being
      honest, as they don't want to spoil any releationships they may have
      between themselves and the company creating the game.  On the other
      end of the spectrum, they ignore or hide games they feel won't 
      help them sell magazines.  

   Sure, we developers proclaim our games to look the greatest, awesome AI,
      cool weapons, blah blah blah, as we have a belief that they will be,
      though that doesn't always come true.  Game developing is a long process,
      and many obstacles generally come up, which evolve and change the course
      of the game.  The stories I could tell you about the last 8 months...
      The only way for us to avoid false claims or predictions would be 
      for us to shut up entirely.  But then our plan files wouldn't be so
      fun to read...

   And before you send off that email to John Romero saying I'm secretly
      ripping on him in my .plan file...  I didn't do any intentional 
      ripping, just pointed out a contradiction.

   And now that I ripped on the magazines, they'll probably hold a grudge
      against myself, Raven, Soldier of Fortune, Activision, Wisconsin,
      the Packers, cheese heads, milk, etc.  I would love to rip on some
      specific magazines, but I'm sure a few management types wouldn't
      be too happy with me.   Publicity = Sales = Money = small portion 
      of my salary.

   Speaking of SoF, keep an eye out in my .plan file early next week for
      something cool in regards to it.  It will be awesome!  Increadible!
      Greatest thing to be seen in a .plan file ever!  ...ok, little 
      sarcastic.

6/11/98
   What a soap opera-ish little video game development world we all live in!

   Tooting, and slamming, and ripping, and flaming, and buying, and driving,
      and promising, and delivering, and releasing, and blahing...

   But out of all of it, I will say that Heretic 2 is very under-pressed.
      Who's to blame?  Activision's marketing?  Other games cuz they 
      are well established got more attention?  Cold Wisconsin weather?
      Not for me to say...

5/28/98
   Anyone know any good E3 coverage sites?  Tomorrow I'm sponsoring the
      official "Boss Be Gone" day!

5/22/98
   Purchased Unreal.  See ya next month.