Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Ld. Programmer / Network Admin
Project: SoF
Nickname: Superfly
Web Page: Rick's Web Site TurtleCam! mEATwagon Cult
Last Updated: 11/01/1998 21:48:54 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11/1/98
   If you are getting a message about Unauthorized Access when running the
      Heretic2 demo, then you are still using the version that has the
      expiration date in it.  Download the patch.
      This is the same patch that was made available the day after the demo,
      so there is nothing new if you have already downloaded it.

10/30/98
   Thanks to those who responded about the message board.  Ended up using
      wwwboard from Matt's scripting archive.

   So, I've placed up a message board for people to post bugs/suggestions
      to.  As time permits, people internally here will respond to 
      questions as best as we can.  Heretic2 Bug Board

 Congrats to the Sin people.  Enjoy Halloween, if you don't sleep though it...

10/28/98
   Because of yesterday's earth shattering announcement regarding Jack
      Mathews leaving 3dfx to join Gary and the gang, thought I would 
      put in a few remarks regarding Jack's passing...

   Jack was a strong man, one of those people you look up to in the
      industry.  He could spot a beer a mile away, and probably even
      consume it from that distance (Yard House).  Women!  Jack had
      plenty around his side, though looking back now, one could always
      see that sparkle in his eye.  Though I think his heart belongs to
      someone in Russia, just not sure who though.  He will be missed 
      sorely, and we are already constructing a memorial to him in SoF. 

   On a serious note, good luck to ya Jack.  Looking forward to working with
      ya in the future! ;)
 
10/27/98
   Hey, if anyone knows of a program (cgi, etc) that I can use to run a 
      web message board for use on IIS 4.0 running on an Intel NT Server V4.0, 
      please email me.  Thanks...

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   There appears to be some individual logging onto servers saying that
      they are an employee of Raven.  They tell the server operator that
      running a non-deathmatch map on a deathmatch server (in particular,
      demodocks) is a violation of the user agreement in the demo and that
      if the map is not changed, you're ISP will be contacted and you'll be
      forced to shut down.  

   Well, this is absolutely wrong.  We really don't care what maps you run
      on a server.  Long as you're having fun, that's all that matters.

   You can always verify something like this with an email to someone here,
      in case a different variation of this prank happens in the future.

10/25/98
   As Pat, CodeKing, said in his .plan file, we were made aware of a 
      method to cheat in deathmatch games.  We also addressed the issue
      of names showing up for clients that were ghosted.  You
      only need to download this file if you are running a deathmatch server.
      Otherwise, it doesn't do you any good.  "Nothing to see here...move along..."

 Heretic2 Demo Server Patch, 369,195 bytes

   Also, I may have a potential fix for those of you that experience the problem
      of the Dial Up Networking annoyance.  Try starting the game from the MsDOS 
      Prompt as follows:   heretic2.bat +set noudp 1 +set noipx 1
      I've not tested this nor have I looked further into the problem, so this 
      solution may not work.  I suspect it has more to do with WinSock being 
      initialized, but that requires a code fix.  Let me know if it does work.

10/24/98
   Argh, such a bad day for me....

   Anyway, if you are running a dedicated server, and you want it to appear on the
      master server list so that others may join, just type "setmaster" on the console
      line after the server has been initialized.  This will send a heart beat to our
      master sever and to GameSpy's.

10/23/98
   If GameSpyLite crashes for you within the first few moments of using it (and this
      would only happen the first time you ran it), please download a new version.  
      If you have not experienced this particular problem, then there is no need for
      you to download this file.  It doesn't fix or address any other problems.

 Updated GameSpyLite, 694,981 bytes

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   And since I'm on an updating madness, I would like to thank:
      Xian @ id sofware for his help with the master server
      Jack @ 3dfx for his help in the gl driver (can't wait to go shopping in Russia)
      David Wright @ GameSpy for his help in intergrating the GameSpy master server
         and setting up a few servers
      Nick Fisher @ WarZone for setting up a server and for supporting H2

   Networking will be addressed further for the final release.  The client
      prediction seems to be working well (good job to Marcus and Gil), though
      we are going to put some more limits in (sounds mainly).  As with anything,
      real networking situations provide a lot of useful info.

   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   GameSpot may be incorrectly reporting that you need a 3d card to run Heretic2.
      This is incorrect, as the demo does include a software renderer.

   Save games were disabled for the demo as a last minute problem crept up, 
      and we didn't have enough time to fully research and eliminate it in time.

   Before everyone explodes into thinking that they'll have to re-download
      the entire demo because of the expiration problem, the fix for that
      particular problem will only be a replacement file for your quake2.dll
      which will be very small.

   If you are having trouble starting Heretic2 in hardware mode for 3dfx, 
      make sure you have the latest glide drivers installed.

   Bug reports and suggestions can be sent to heretic2bugs@mail.ravensoft.com
      Don't expect a response if we get flooded with email.

10/22/98
   And!  I'll be playing tonight.  Biessman, Kramer, and I
      have our own team, called the Meat Wagon!  You'll know us by our 
      outlandish and outrageous cool names!   hehe

   Oh, yeah, Heretic2.

   We will be running both an id style master server here (master.ravensoft.com)
      as well as support for GameSpy's master server.  The H2 demo will include 
      a Heretic2 GameSpyLite version.

   PingTool, QHunter, and EGN will be having Heretic2 support shortly as well.

   We will probably also be hosting a game on master.ravensoft.com and maybe
      on equalizer.ravensoft.com.  Equalizer is a slower test machine in my office,
      and I may not support a game with more than 8 players on that one.

   Demo will be approx 35 megs.  Don't know what time it will be out today.

   *YYYAAAAWWWWNNNNN*

10/21/98
   If you would like to incorporate Heretic2 support into your product
      (level editor, server tool, model editor, etc), please contact me and
      I'll provide you with the appropriate info.  

10/19/98
   Well, it is now official.  Yesterday's announcement was, in fact, a lie.
      Those responsible for the lie have been sacked.  I've never personally
      seen the Unreal engine code......yet :)

10/18/98
   Well, it is now official.  Heretic 2 is switching over to the Unreal
      engine.  Pat and I have been examing the codebase for the last few days
      and gave our recommendation yesterday to do the switch.  

   "I'm really giddy by this switch!", Pat Lipo, programming lead of Heretic 2
      was quoted as saying.  "We'll all be able to go home in time for Corn Flakes
      after the switch.  Yummy!"  Mr. Lipo is currently predicting that the switch 
      over will only delay the product by 2 days.  He cited that Raven's tremendous 
      experience in the porting tools will help out.  "We've written tens of programs 
      to convert this to that.  I'm not anticipating any problems here.  Simply 
      replacing this with q2 and that with unreal is really quite simple in these
      super developing environments we have today."

   Rick Johnson stated, "By using a c plus plus object oriented environment plus
      the ability to do coding in a hybrid scripting system, we'll be able to make
      the hardware go beyond its normal polygon fill rate to almost double, while
      increasing the resolution fifty percent or higher, giving a frame rate increase
      of slightly less than twenty two and a half percent.  Though personally I think
      Pat is off his rocker for thinking the conversion will only take 2 days.  Come
      on!  It will take 2 days alone for the net traffic over the lan.  More like 3.5 
      days."

   Kenn Hoekstra said, "I don't know anything about programming, 
      but I think it is a great idea."

   Heretic 2 is still scheduled to go Gold in...2 weeks!
 
10/12/98
 "Hmm, that’s interesting.  Perhaps you should update your plan hyping 
      Soldier of Fortune instead of wasting your time trying to trash someone 
      else’s product.  I think you’re gonna need it Superfly."

   Did I trash Daikatana?  Don't believe so...  Too many fan fanatics out there!
      Like that time when "they" threatened my life out there...   

   And as for hyping SoF - Never liked hyped to begin with - gives people too
      many false impressions about what the game may or may not be.  Just one
      of the evils for developers, which I'm writing an editorial on...

10/11/98
 Return to Fantasy Island

 "1998 POWER PLAY ION's December release, Daikatana, has the video-gaming 
      world waiting in the sort of anticipation they usually reserve for new 
      Metallica CDs. In it, your hero, Hiro Miyamoto, uses a magic samurai 
      sword to travel through time while vanquishing his enemies. Expect 
      every kid worth his carpel tunnel syndrome to be clamoring for it 
      come Christmas."

   Santa isn't coming this year, kids!

10/8/98
 Take a trip to Fantasy Island

   Send in an email for comments and I'll post them...  I'm too kind to put my own out :)

10/1/98
   Oh, and for the engine part:  we licensed the