Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Ld. Programmer / Network Admin
Project: SoF
Nickname: Superfly
Web Page: Rick's Web Site TurtleCam! mEATwagon Cult
Last Updated: 02/10/1999 10:55:25 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2/10/99
   Trying to figure out an explanation for this site, I've not been able
      to come up with one.  Make sure you have your sound up:

 HamsterDance

2/1/99
   Hello?  Apple?  Are you in the fashion industry?  Or are you just 
      doing marketing gimmicks?

   I sure wish my PC would come in purple or green or blue?  

   And that stupid HAL commercial during the Superbowl trying to make it 
      look like the PC is to blame for the Y2K Bug, and that everything 
      on the Apple is perfect and has no Y2K problems.  Sure, the OS 
      may not have any problems, but beyond that, it is the individual 
      developer's responsibility to not use a 2 digit year.  That certainly 
      has nothing to do with PC manufactures.

1/21/99
   M.U.L.E. = Multiple-Use Labor Element
   Thanks for everyone who sent in the answer!

   Well, I've been pretty quiet about SoF, so, I'll just mention this.
      SoF has in it the most advanced modeling system (rendering, networking,
      feature set, and other goodies), named Ghoul, than any other game that 
      will be released in 1999.  Noticed I didn't say "will have in it" but "has".

1/19/99
   www.ebay.com is such a wonderful place.  It helped fulfill one of my
      life long fantasies.  Well, ok, maybe that's a bit extreme, but...

   From around 7th grade to maybe 10th, I "acquired" a ton of C64 software.
      My all-time favorite game is M.U.L.E.  I always felt guilty that I never
      legally owned a copy, plus I never knew what M.U.L.E. stood for.

   Well, because of my good fortune on ebay, I was able to get an original 
      copy of the game still in its original shrink wrap for the C64!
      I'm eager to open it up and flip through the manual, but I don't think
      I'll ever do that.  Maybe I'll frame it...  Though I still don't know 
      what M.U.L.E. stands for.  I also got an original copy of Hard Hat Mack.

1/8/99
   Just a quick amendum to my comments from yesterday.  While I support 
      these pages about industry news, attacks/comments about one's personal
      life (whether they are true or not) should not be posted.  All of us
      in this quake / unreal universe seem to have a very public side to our 
      lives, but we also are just regular people with personal lives.

   -------------------------------

   Anyone happen to have any recommendations for a digital camera?  I've been
      thinking about getting one for personal use.  Seems like a lot of people 
      are recommending the Kodak DSC-260.  

1/7/99
   Looks like some one's trying to put out the flame.  
      Puts an interesting twist on editorial pages, like Evil Avatar and
 BitchX, and how far individuals / companies are willing to let them go before 
      pursuing legal action.  

   Personally, I do enjoy these pages.  They provide some very insightful 
      information, when they are correct.  And they can get away with the 
      bitter truth or honesty.  i.e. if I did have negative feelings towards a
      company that Raven is working closely with, there's no way that I could
      ever speak of it publically, as I certainly would be shooting myself in
      the foot.  (just to make it clear, that was an example, and didn't imply 
      anything).

   My only complaint about these types of pages would be accountability.  They
      can pretty much put up anything they want, including rumors, speculations, or
      even false statements.  All of these items can be very harmful to the people
      involved.  Sometimes, even when items are reported as being false, they do
      not get corrected (though the two pages mentioned above are very good about
      making corrections and representing both sides of the story when applicable).

   "One should not fear the truth.  One should fear those hiding the truth."
      (c) Rick Johnson  :)

1/5/99
   If you didn't catch this, Heretic2 is being ported over to the Macintosh.
      I'm not sure when the estimated date of release is going to be, but it
      is still several months away, as far as I know.  The port is being done
      by an outside company called LogicWare.

   Only in Wisconsin can you go sledding at night when it is -10 out!  Pat,
      James, John Scott, and I went sledding for an hour.  Although it was a 
      little cold out, it was a blast!

12/31/98
   New Year's resolutions come early this year.  I've put up a web site
      to help me get the final version of HexenWorld produced.  Mainly, at
      this point, I'm looking for feedback on what's currently broken in t