Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Ld. Programmer / Network Admin
Project: SoF
Nickname: Superfly
Web Page: Rick's Web Site TurtleCam! mEATwagon Cult
Last Updated: 11/15/1999 16:42:58 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11/15/99
   For those of you who have "acquired" a version of the OEM, you may have noticed rendering glitches with the
      fog.  This is because the source of the version you "acquired" it from was mucking around with console
      variables and saved them in a bad state.  To fix this, you should either delete the config.cfg file
      in the user directory where you "installed" the game, or edit the config.cfg file, and change the
      following console variables to these values:

      set gl_fogmode "0"
      set gl_offsetunits "0.0"
      set gl_offsetfactor "-1.0"

   Also, please Email us your comments about the OEM (praise, criticism, likes, dislikes, etc) 
      so that we can take your feedback to improve the final game.

11/12/99
 Download the long awaited SoF AVI!  It's about 24 megs...

11/6/99
   So you're waiting for the SoF AVI?  Well, here's something to wet your appetitie.  This 
 Song was an impromptu recording by the actor that plays John Mullins in
      SoF.  This was just a little fun thing that Chia-Chin Lee had him record.  This isn't actually 
      going to be included in the game...  Enjoy!

 Please note that this song is intended for mature audiences.  Parental discretion is advised.

11/3/99
   The comments about playing it for a brief try were not directed towards the avault article at all.  
      The article as a whole is very fair, and actually is very favorable towards SoF.  The reviewer
      did play the OEM extensively and walked away not fully liking our difficulty settings.  That's fine, and
      this is already address for the final product.  What frustrates developers the most is when
      people dislike options without either trying it or just playing it "for a bit".  Most of the time,
      features will grow upon you.

   --------

   I hate it when people make assumptions about games prior to ever playing it or just giving it a brief 
      try.  Open up your minds, otherwise you'll be stuck with the same game play forever :)

   The guys respawn...  They spawn out of logical places where more enemies would naturally flow in.
      They also respawn based upon the amount of "noise" you are generating.  If you use louder weapons,
      you'll attract more attention to yourself.  Quieter weapons, you'll attract less attention, and you
      won't see as many people.

   Limited saves...  It does add very much to the realism.  People were skeptical here, but turned out it that
      it made you in the game more "mortal" and tightened up your senses.

   But, having said that, one option which did NOT make it into the OEM is a customizable difficulty setting,
      where you can control the number of saves (or unlimited), no respawning, AI difficulty, etc.  So if you
      don't like our defaults for the standard difficulties presented to you, you can alwa