Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Rick Johnson
Email: rjohnson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Ld. Programmer / Network Admin
Project: SoF
Nickname: Superfly
Web Page: Rick's Web Site TurtleCam! mEATwagon Cult
Last Updated: 02/23/2001 11:05:30 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2/23/2001
   I'm putting together a new release of the Hexen2 source.  This is mainly to add the the original 
      Hexen2 source code.  Please let me know if there are any additional sources you would like to 
      see (specifically tools source that I might have not included in any previous public releases).

   SoF Patch is in a weird state of limbo, mainly because of the demise of WON / FlipSide, MPlayer, 
      Global Rankings, and all sorts of stuff.  We've got one thing ready, but it is out of my hands at
      this point.  Once we do release the patch, I will put out an update to the game source code.

   As for what I'm working on as my main tasks, I can't say.  That won't be announced for some time
      (not what you expect either).  

   And, as for the Doom3 Technology, the video footage from the Mac Expo truely doesn't do it justice,
      until you can see it in person at a much better quality.  Each time I've seen the technology, I've
      been more and more impressed.  

   Oh, and if anyone knows any good military strategy type games, in the same style as The Perfect General
      or Empire Deluxe, let me know.  I've been wanting to play one that has been made within the last
      few years.
 
12/14/2000
   Some point soon, I'm going to release a new version of the Hexen2 source code.  I'm planning on adding
      the original Hexen2 source (vs the Mission Pack source that was in the original release) as well
      as some utility source that I left out.  I'll also try to clarify the license agreements as well.

   So I'm a little late about my further comments of the Game Boy Color - I'll try to get to that soon.

11/30/2000
   So what do programmers do on their time off?  They program of course.

   Back in August, Jake Simpson and I went to this little event called QuakeCon.  On the plane ride
      down, I started to play with his Color Game Boy - never owned one, never had much interest.
      We got to talking about how one would develop for it, and that it would be pretty cool to 
      fool around with it.

   About a week later, he sent me a link to this web site.  Apparently, there has been a
      net community that has been doing hacking / development for the Game Boy and Color Game Boy.
      While none of this is officially sanctioned by Nintendo, everything you need to create your own 
      games is on this site.

   Well, time passed and I didn't have any spare time until very recently.  I had to go up north to spend some time
      with my pare