
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: beau
Plan modified: Wed Apr 22 18:43:00 1998

You have reached Beau Anderson's .plan
beau@ritual.com
Artist - 3d Modeler/Texture Guy

4/22/98

  I usually don't make non work related plan updates... but here goes.

Sports:
I am a Utah Jazz nut, so my opinion is obviously biased, but as far as MVP 
goes, everyone knows Jordan will get it this year.  I'm not saying he shouldn't, or
that he's not the greatest player ever, but let's look at the figures:

      Scoring: Malone 27 points a game, Jordan 28.6. 
      Field-goal percentage: Malone 53 percent, Jordan 46. 
      Rebounds: Malone 10.3, Jordan 5.8. 
      Assists: Malone 3.9, Jordan 3.5.  (which of these is the guard??)
      Both players are All-NBA defenders. 
      The Bulls won 62 games, the Jazz won 62 games -- beating the Bulls both
		times the teams met.

Should an MVP award be given based on past playoff heroics?  No.  It should be
based on a player's merits from October 31 to April 19.  Should the greatest
player ever receive the award because this might be his last year?  Nope.

One thing's for sure, there is only one team in the NBA that does not fear
the Bulls -- the Utah Jazz.


4/9/98

  Things have come together nicely on the art side of Sin, and the fine tuning has
begun.  All the screenshots we have released can be considered old news, as we have 
re-done just about every model -- including weapons, as we have made the switch to 
the Q2 code.  We finally have a texture mapping method we are happy with.  The 
lighting model has also changed drastically and things look so much better.  
Visible weapons in deathmatch rocks - there's nothing like the chill that goes 
through you when you see a guy sizing you up from long range with a massive gun.  
Visible weapons isn't as easy as it sounds, you have to account for every weapon type 
in every run, walk, fire, crouchfire, swim, swimfire, etc.  Blade can shoot rifle 
style, big gun style, and pistol style.  It adds up to a lot of animating.



