Login: cameron        			Name: Cameron Lamprecht
Directory: /usr/users/cameron       	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Last login Fri Oct  2 21:12 (CDT) on ttyp0 from vermucci
New mail received Thu Oct 22 22:53 1998 (CDT)
     Unread since Thu Oct 22 19:09 1998 (CDT)
Plan:
These are my personal views! They do not express the views of Rogue
 Entertainment or any associates of Rogue Entertainment, family,
 friends or pets. I will not shag sheep during meetings and no 
shaving of the chickens during lunch breaks! I think that about 
covers all the bases.....


March 10,1998:
         Here's the skinny, level designers wanted. Rogue is lookin' 
to hire on a couple more scurvey dogs to join the crew. So, if you got it in 
ya, we'll be takin' submissions (maps that is, quake2 levels, digital gold
and all that jazz). If you know that name of the movie you'd like
to see, press one now............all those interested need to mail
their maps to jimm@rogue-ent.com......He's the man that'll take care of 
the rest. As far as an official on the web site type deal, that should be 
coming soon to a web browser near you. And now for the soothing sounds
of Larwence Welk and his funky hobo bubble blowin' band............


March 19,1998:
          Attention Quake2 shoppers, in aisle 4, the mighty John Carmack, in
his .plan file has given away our big secret. Yes out of the depths
of the ever so hidden Rogue batcave(up the hall from id software) comes the
greatest mission pack ever to be created in eyes of god. Well, at least Carmack
anounced to the gaming community what we're up to over here at
stately Rogue manor.
Some minor things about our pack, cause I can't say to much yet, Single player
will rock your ass with some of the most intense levels available in a
mission pack, not to mention monsters,weapons and powerups(hint hint). Then
after a rough day of wearing super hero tights, and battling your evil super
villians, you can pull a little r&r playing some Rogue death match.
Rogue death match maps, in my humble opinion, are the shit, ain't nothing 
going to come close to em'! And that's not even braggin'! While single player
is going to slap you in the face with some fierce game play,death match will,
simply put, get you thinknin' you're a real mass murderin' fool! Trust me,
Chalie Manson ain't got nothing on us! 
        When is this awesome creation of mayhem and strategy coming? Well
 all I can say about that is when it's done. Yes, it's an ol'stanby, but
that's the truth, cause it ain't over till the bloated carcass of a dead
yak sings. Or something to that effect. 
        And now for more of the 411 on our hiring status. The desicion still
hasn't been made, there's some good stuff coming in, but if you think you've
got what it takes, we are still accepting submissions for level designer(s).
So send em' in, death match,single player, crazed peyote induced hallucinaion
maps, if you've got em' send em'. Well, that is all, thanks for playing, and
take a mint, compliments of Rogue.......................