Name: Ben Geisler
Email: bgeisler@ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NAME: BEN GEISLER
NICK: MECHANODROID
CURRENT PROJECT: SOF2 AI
------------------------------------------
GR33TZ0Rs && SA7UTATZI0NS FRIEND COMPUTER! 


Right.
So this is my first plan update and I thought I'd 
start it out by:

1. Saying Hi
2. Ranting about this year's GenCon

My current project is coding up the LICH AI engine
in Sof2.  Chris Reed and I are working on it together,
and it's a blast. I can't wait to hear reports from
QuakeCon, we have some really cool AI to show and
you guys are gonna love it.

Now, whats the point of a .plan if not to rant?

What was up with GenCon this year?
OK, I know, I know... I'm getting old and for the past apx.
four years GenCon has mostly just been an excuse to go 
to Milwaukee and hang out with friends, go to MadPlanet 
and shake our booty, not to mention drink of few of the
brew town's finest.

But still, I go there expecting a fair bit of gaming and
a fair bit of geekdom.  Maybe it's the old school geekdom that
I miss.  The first room I passed was the GIANT card game room.
Now you might ask- well why did I even bother going near that place,
well- we were on the way to find food and I had no choice (was with some other
people- a SOF clan El Krem was hanging with, and you don't mess
with Krem).

Anyway, ok so I see all these card games, all of who I blame for
single handedly bringing the downfall of the traditional table top RPGs
(remember GURPS? Cyberpunk? Paranoia? 1st Edition!, Teenagers from Outerspace!)
Where are they now?  Tucked away in some corner of the Midwest Express Center,
and in their place, a bunch of pokemon on tiny pieces of cardboard.
Heresy! I tell you!  Martha!! Get me the shotgun!  Those darn kids are 
on the front lawn again!!

Anyway, next stop is the main hall, I figure I'll walk around and maybe
go to the TSR castle.  Hey, it was still early in the day and I hadn't
had enough coffee yet- so as instinct would have it- what is the first thing
to do at Gencon, thats right- the castle.  But NOOOO!!! As everyone who 
is awake and has had their 3 cups of coffee knows, it's now the Wizard Castle.
Yeah, well they are a fine company and all, but still it's not the same.
Some big security guard guy in a red shirt in front of the wizards gate
told me I could not pass, that I had to stand in some line to get in.
So I skipped that.  Now at this point, being completely dissatisfied I think to myself:
"well, where would the last bastion of true gaming be?  I KNOW!
The wargamming room!!!  Those guys rock!  Last time I was there I think some guy
had this boat wargame thing with these 2 foot miniatures of speed boats with
machine guns mounted on them.  And also that same time, I got asked by some
guy in a weird uniform if I wanted to join "Harthagars blue army", or something
along those lines.  If there were any hardcore gamers to be found, the wargame
room would not disappoint.  So off I went.

What do I see on entering?  Card Games!!!
NOOOO!!!!

Soon after, I found an old friend and we ditched gencon for a few hours to cool
off at a local coffee shop.