Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/archive/index.phtml?path=plan">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
September 18, 2001 - 8:20PM

So whoopdy shit. This past couple of weeks
have been nothing but ups and downs. I went
to Los Angeles a few days ago, last Thursday
to be exact. Due to the national crisis
that's currently going on, I decided to
drive down. It was probably a good idea
considering the fact that I probably needed
some alone time to help me figure out and
absorb all that's happened within the past 
month or so.

I ended up having a really great time in LA.
Although I had to deal with a lot of family
shit seeing that my brother was getting
married last weekend, it was stil fun. I did
spend some time with many of my friends and
even had an opportunity to go play some
volleyball with my friends on a lazy Saturday
afternoon. It was all in all a refreshing
four days. 

Now that my bro is married, congrats again,
he has moved out of our house in LA and so the
constant phone calls from mom will ensue. You
know the kind I'm talking about, the ones
where mom is completely hysterical and crying
about how she's all alone in the great big 
house with nothing to do. What are you
supposed to say when that happens? You can
try and be comforting, however, they don't
seem to pay attention. *sigh*

I'm installing Windows XP at the moment,
let's see if I'll be hating life within the
next fourty minutes. Something tells me yes,
we'll see what happens.

As for Sharon? She's perfect. She makes me
very happy, happier than I've ever been with
anyone else, and the funny thing is, I wasn't
even expecting to find someone like her, shit,
I wasn't even looking. I had finally learned
to be happy alone and this comes along. I guess
that's how it always is, huh? The good ones
come out of the wood-work the moment you're 
happy just being alone.

Yay for that.

-s


Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
