Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/archive/index.phtml?path=plan">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
November 4, 2001 - 5:12PM

Today was spectacular, to put it simply. 
This morning started off lazy and cuddly
like so many other mornings. The sun
shining in both our faces as we squint
and can bearly distinguish one anothers
facial features. Then my love arrises to
leave me for a book. I sleep on for just
a little longer at which point I too 
realize that sleeping in was not going to
be an option for this was a lovely day.

After hanging all over one another like
a baby chimp and it's new found friends, 
Sharon and I decided that today would be 
a day of hiking through the woods. I think
enjoying the fine weather while it's still
around is probably the best way to
appreciate the day. 

After a short breakfast, we packed up our
lunch and drove down to Santa Cruz to run
some small errands. I was hoping to find
the necessary items to complete the hut
over my bed, our endevors were unsuccessful.

Shortly thereafter, we headed back into the
woods where we would spend the remainder of
the afternoon among the trees. When we 
began our hike, we started to stomp our way
down the side of a mountain, arms flailing,
holding hands. This proved to become painful
after about 10 minutes due to our elbows
wearing away from the impact of our heavy 
footsteps on the soft moist ground.

After we arrived at the bottom of our trail,
we came on to the San Lorenzo river which
was calmly strolling around, it too enjoying
it's lazy Sunday afternoon. We came upon
some gently warm smiling faces along our
way who were also enjoying their hikes
through the woods.

We came on to a spot on the river which was
lush with some unusual pale green grass and 
untouched beach like sand. We knew that we 
must walk on that shore and have our lunch
on the soft sand. Changing course a little,
walked up and down the river shore attempting
to find a spot that we could try to cross 
and get to the that awaiting paradise. 

We finally found a series of rocks that almost
appeared to be strategically placed for optimum 
crossing ability. After failing at crossing
the river dry, we got to the other side with
feet drenched in cold and covered simultaneously
with grime and sand.

After hiking through the woods with no avail,
we decided that a new resting place was in
order. We stopped at a spot that was very wide
and the water was placid, reminicent of glass.

After eating our packed lunch and kissing 
underneath the sycamores and tan oak trees
that wholly surrounded us, we decided to attempt
to make our way back to the other side of the 
river. With some stretching and groping and
some spontaneous engineering, we reached the
island in the middle of the river and then 
performed our feets once again to arrive on the
other side of the river.

We began to walk back to my car when we realized
it was still early and we decided to continue
our hike and came upon Diversion Dam which was
nothing more than the skeleton of once a miniture
dam.

Following our climbing up and down, through 
and about the distant innards, we got the bug 
to leave our ended trail and make our own 
way through the woods. We climbed trees and 
dirt cliffs in an attempt to get the side of 
the mountain.

This proved to be an adventure all to itself.
We used everything that we could find along
the way in our attempts to climb the mountain
in hopes of finding a trail that might take us
back to civilization and hopefully our lives.

Our climbing excursion consumed the rest of
our stay in the woods. Once we emerged though
the untouched and uncharted mountain side, we
arrived upon a small dirt trail which yielded
two lovely people on horses making their way
through the side of the mountain. They greeted
us with great big smiles and bid us farewell
and the adventure continued.

Arriving at the the railroad tracks, roughly
about three quarters of a mile above the river
shore we had a sense of accomplisment. We 
completed our mission and arrived at the end 
of our excursion. 

It was a beautiful day. One that I won't forget.

-s













Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.