Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/archive/index.phtml?path=plan">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
December 3, 2001 - 3:46PM

So working from home has it's perks, we all
know that. One is, it's allowing me to take
a five minute break and write in my .plan
which I miss oh so much.

Our forums are an interesting place. They
are filled with life and magic, but also at
times with chaos and anarchy. I've found my
self frequently overwhelmed with the flood
of craziness when shit goes wrong there. I've
even thought to my self that I should just 
turn the damn thing off since we don't have
the man power to give it the love it needs.
However, the conditions will change. We'll
be hiring someone to take on some developer
relations responsibilies and also have that
person take an active role in our community
and help everyone when help is needed and 
laugh with everyone when it's time to laugh.

I know that would help Jonathan and myself 
relax a little and not worry about when and 
how the next crazy event in our lovely forums
errupts into hysteria.

I also wanted to say something. To all the 
mods that help run the forums, everyone of
you, from the tech support forums to the 
general discussions. We appreciate the work 
and effort you have put in. We know that
some of you are burned out and overwhelmed,
we value all the work you have put in, in
the past, and that we hope that you can lend
a helping hand when you can. But what it
comes down to is thanks for caring about
everybody including us, without your help,
we couldn't even try to pull it off.

On a slightly unemotional note, I love Grand
Theft Auto 3. It's the greatest video game
ever made.

On a different note, I love Winamp3. The
skins that some of you artists and coders
are pulling together and proving to be
amazing. Thanks for your work and we love
what you are all doing.

-s














Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
