Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/archive/index.phtml?path=plan">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
*tap*tap*tap* Is this thing on?

December 31, 2001 - 2:01AM

Holy hot fucking shit. I love getting emails
from fanatical Christians telling me that
our website is evil and dirty and doesn't
deserve to exist. They bring me so much joy.
What's the fucking deal, I don't tell them
that I think their obscession with god is a
load of crap or that they can't get their
shit together and do something valuable with
their lives, so they bitch and moan to the 
therapist in the sky hoping for a "sign".

I mean jesus, what the fuck. HAHAHAHAHAA.

Even though, I'm supposed to be Christian, 
I don't practice nor do I think my actions 
are going to affect me one way or another. I
thing that people get so bent out of shape 
with their beleifs. It's YOUR beleifs, so
please, keep it to your self and stop trying
to impose it on me. Sheesh.

Anyway, you know what's great? Waking up at
the crack of noon with someone in the bed 
next to you. Waking up with a smile on your 
face, only to be mirrored back at you because
you both know that you are equally oozing the
same ammount of love for one another. That's 
a great feeling indeed.

So today is the last day of the year. Let's 
reflect on this year that was known to us as
2001. Well, for one, I found a love. An all
inspiring love. One that shows me new ways
to feel everyday. I also realized I have some
stellar fucking friends. Everyone I know and
keep in my life is someone incredibly unique
and I wanna hold on to these people because
afterall, when you're dead and gone, all you
really had was your friends. It's not like
all that money you made or that stuff you 
bought will be talking to it's fellow stuff 
about you, right?

Also, I realized that as much as a pain in
the ass my mom is, I love her very much.
She's had it rough (well, at least in her 
opinion) and I need to cut her more slack.
And my dad, wow, now I don't nearly tell him
how much I love him. He's a very good man and
it's a god damn shame we're not closer.
Perhaps that'll be my New Years Resolution,
get to know my dad much better. That sounds
like a splendid idea.

Anyway, Justin, I read your post about the
airlines, and I firmly agree. Airlines suck
big fucking donkey balls dripping with coochie
juice. I hate those mother fuckers and I hope
that the airlines all go out of business so
that they'll get their heads out of the clouds,
and service the customer, not the other way
around.

-s



Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
