Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
March 9, 2002 - 2:23AM

Wow, I really can't beleive that's it's been
about 2 months or so since I last wrote 
something here. That's almost ridiculous,
considering the track record I used to have 
with my .plans. It's not that I don't care
I just have nothing to really talk about.

What's been going on in my world? Well, the
company has split into several different
parts where each part has their own tasks to
work on. I'm in the Web Properties division
of the company. What does that mean? nothing
to you since I'll still be working on Winamp.
I just won't be doing the same kinds of
things I have in the past.

The site has not fallen by the wayside but 
it's not getting new functionality either. 
After the monster layoffs that happened, it
was really unclear how we were going to do 
anything on Winamp.com ever again. That's 
changed quite a bit and we have a person named
Wen who's doing the work now. The good thing
is that with Daniel and Kyles departure, the
site was litterally crashing on a daily
basis, Wen's got it to a point where it 
doesn't seem to crash it at all. 

So what's coming? Well, Wen's working on the
changes he needs to make to be able to have 
our website accept skins and components for
Winamp3 to be submitted by our users. He is
also going to be fixing our fucking stupid
shitty search engine that powers are skins
and plugins search. Hopefully it won't suck
as bad as it has been for the past year or
so.

We hired a replacement for Denny. Denny
decided that he wanted to go waste his time
persuing college chicks by doing the whole
school thing, silly canadian. The new hire,
another Canadian, named Gislain has come in
to take over and actually do some work. 
Since Gislain is to hard to pronounce, please
just refer to him as Aus (his nickname). I'm
actually happy about hiring him, he seems
like he'll be a good fit and get the job 
done.

Winamp3 is coming along, Beta3 was released
a few weeks back. It was a good release, at 
least in my opinion. Don't ask when the next
release will happen, I can't really tell ya.

How about my personal life. Did you know that
there are specific companies that pull out
dents out of your car and that's all they do?
I had two nasty dents in my car that I got 
pulled out and I didn't need any repainting
or anything for $160. I was stoked. DentPro
is the name of the company, I definately
recommend them.

Sharon is a freaky freaky girl. It's like
we're twins or something. She's as crazy as
I am but can be more reserved and withdrawn
than I ever could be. She has a very high 
tollerance for annoyance and loves to laugh.
I get a little freaked out that she's too 
good for me, but then I realize that I am 
a pretty nice guy and deserve to have a girl
that's not completely fuct in the head.

What else? Nothing much that I can think of,
infact I can barely think at all. I should
probably head off to bed or something. Too
bad Sharon's not here for me to cuddle with.
Oh well.

Good night.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.