Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
"|IFS=' ' && exec /usr/local/bin/procmail -f- || exit 75 #user"
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
May 25, 2002 - 1:10AM

Damn, FINALLY. Last night in LA for at the 
very least a few weeks. I have some friends
that are graduating from college at the end
of June and they've invited me to their
parties to help them celebrate, we'll see 
if I'm actually going to have an opportunity
to return to this shithole.

I realized how much I love my dog this week.
The poor beast gets no attention since I've
left, she just mopes around and lives this 
really depressing exisitance, or so my mom
says. This could be one of her ploys to get
me to move back down here, but something
tells me that she's being truthful about it.
I feel horrible about having her just live
here alone, but I don't know what else I
could do for her. I'd love to take her up
North with me but something tells me that
this is becoming less and less likely an
option for me.

Last night was pretty fun. We all went out
for drinks and some dinner in Hollywood. I
think we all had a pretty great time. The
atmosphere was great and the people were in
just the right mood. My only wish was that
we didn't end up staying out so damn late.

I woke up at 8:00 today and went to Magic
Mountain with my friend Kristel. Our day 
consisited of arriving, getting my season
pass, and then spending about 4 hours in line
to ride X, the new "Xtreme" ride at Magic
Mountain. Jesus, it was a pretty amazing 
ride, however, it was NOT worth the fucking
4 hour wait. We were sooo disgruntled as a
result of waiting for so long, we just had
some lunch and decided that we would no
longer be able to tollerate a line in any
capacity ever again. So, we went home.

The rest of my day was spent returning emails
and then finally heading over to my bro's
house for dinner. That was also fun. My bro
and I came up with a pretty cool idea,
however, it looks as though we'll never be
able to make it a reality because of the
fact that someone could completely destroy
the idea with one virus, so we're trying to
figure out if it's still something that's 
feasible.

Anyway, I'm pretty damn exhausted and I think
it's probably time for me to FINALLY get a 
full nights rest, if my dad would turn off
the damn TV long enough for me to fall asleep.

Anyway, good night all.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
