Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
"|IFS=' ' && exec /usr/local/bin/procmail -f- || exit 75 #user"
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
May 30, 2002 - 9:51AM

Damn it's good to be back. I've really
gotten to the point where I despise LA.
Suckage, but true.

So I'm finally getting to the point where
I'm going to break down and lay down the
cash for subscription based sites. I'm 
getting annoyed that I can't go to
gamespot and just view the site the way I
wanted to. That's lame but I guess every
one has to make a living, right?

So I'm sitting at the office right now. 
Tuesday's and Thursday's are the days
that I come into the office and hook up
with people for meetings and what not. 
This schedule has worked out quite nicely
for me but it still sucks to have to drive
1.5 hours each way. Regardless I'm here.

Francis organized a work session for all
of us that's going to take place today 
at Brennan's house. We're going to leave 
at 4:00ish and start working. We're
probably going to go work till tomorrow 
night. I can almost guarantee that we're 
going to be spending about half the time
arguing over usability issues. It's going
to be a long long 36 hours, that's for
sure.

Sharon's been waking up at 6:00AM to go 
to work the past few days and it appears
that this is going to be her regular
schedule from this point forth. I hate
the idea of not being able to wake up 
and spend an hour or so in bed, I suppose
that's what happens when you're a big kid,
huh? Nevertheless, it's been nice waking
early and taking showers and eating a 
proper breakfast at my own pace rather
than rushing out the front door trying to
meet Dave at the bottom of our hill.

You know what's really starting to piss
me off? The fact that every time I sign 
on, I'm getting more and more Instant 
Message SPAM. What the fuck... as if my
inbox wasn't bad enough, now they're
instant messaging me as well? THOSE 
FUCKERS. I wish that I could just pay
someone to make sure that kinda shit
doesn't ever get to me. I mean seriously,
if the post office had some sort of 
system to not let spam get to your mailbox,
I'd totally pay for it. Same with the net.
WHERE DO I HAVE TO SEND MY CHECK TO? All
I want is to check my mail and only see
my mail.

It makes me wonder, what the fuck are 
these marketers doing? Don't they get
pissed that their mailboxes are filled
with shit all the time? It's like they have
no conscience or souls or something. If
I ever find out the email addresses to 
people that work at spam factories, I'm
going to sign them up the the worst mailing
lists that I can think of.

Fucking bitches....

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
