Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
"|IFS=' ' && exec /usr/local/bin/procmail -f- || exit 75 #user"
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
June 3, 2002 - 2:31AM

So it's been a while since I've written a
.plan update that was really honest or 
indepth in terms of how I've been feeling.
I think that I lost that connection, the
notion that when I wrote about what was on
my mind, it would thus make me feel better
cause it was out on paper rather than just
buzzing around in my mind.

So let's get back into the swing of things,
shall we? Well, I do have something to talk
about for the first time in a long while,
and it's not a happy subject, at least for
me.

This past year or so has been incredibly
difficult for me. Sure there's been a lot
of great things that have happened. To name
one, I met Sharon, and that's been a pretty
tremendous thing for me. To find someone
who is as weird as me and loves me for those
very reasons.

So what have been some of the shitty things
that have happened? For one, I saw some of 
my really good friends get laid off and 
pretty much thrown out onto the street.
That was probably one of the saddest days
of my life, seeing the people you've spent
the past two years with be asked to exit the
building by 12:00PM. I don't think I'm still
over that nor will I ever be fully over it.

Since that fateful day, a lot has changed. 
I'm now product manager for Winamp among
other things. I have to deal with things,
people, and circumstances that I really
would rather not.

About a month ago, I was really stressed
from work and I did something really stupid.
Basically, I was pretty careless cause I 
was stressed out and didn't want to deal 
with something so I took the easy way out
and could have got some people in a LOT of 
trouble. But foruntately, the end result
wasn't as bad as it could have been.
Regardless, after I did what I did, I 
realized the mistake that I had made and 
as such, I feel like total shit about it
cause I could have totally avoided it. But
I fucked up. I have probably even damaged 
the trust of some of my closest friends,
but that's a consequence that I will have
to learn how to deal with over time.

I've also been feeling really stressed out
from just work in general. I have a lot of
different responsibilities to a lot of 
people and I'm feeling really overwhelmed.
I'm trying really hard to balance all these
diffierent things and no matter what I do
I feel as though I'm letting somebody down.

Someone from the team told me that I've 
become too buddy buddy with my boss. I've
also had a few people imply that I've
become a sell-out, just another corporate
cocko. That really really hurts. It's 
become really really difficult to work the
way I do. I'm totally busting my ass and 
doing a LOT of work that I don't always
particularly enjoy and on top of that, my 
friends think that I've sold out. It makes
me wonder why I even bother at all? I'm in
a lose lose situation. The more I think
about it, the more it's depressing me. 

By no means am I trying to ass kiss my 
way to the top. I could careless where
I am in the scheme of things. I'm just 
trying really hard to do what I think is
right for everyone, unfortunately, it 
appears that I'm not doing a very good job
at that and I'm letting down the people I 
care most about. This feeling totally sucks
ad I want it to go away.

All I know is that I find myself not very
happy at the moment. I've got way too much 
shit going on in my life and frankly I'm 
getting really exhausted. I'm feeling 
pretty shitty right now. I think I'm just
gonna go to bed, maybe I'll feel a little
better in the morning.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.