Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
"|IFS=' ' && exec /usr/local/bin/procmail -f- || exit 75 #user"
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
June 13, 2002 - 11:11PM

On Sunday I went to downtown Santa Cruz
with Sharon. That was a lot of fun. We
had some thai iced teas, went to see a 
movie called "enigma" and then we came
home. While we were down there, I got 
a chance to go to Borders and buy two
of my favorite movies of all time for a
killer price.

First off, I got Bill and Ted's 
Excellent Adventure. What a great great
film. 

Little bit of triva, but all of the
Nullsoft servers used to be named after
characters from that movie. I think that
genghis is the only one remaining from 
that time though. We once had, bill, ted,
rufus, missy, lincolin, napoleon, genghis,
and finally freud. 

This week, during our weekly meeting, 
Dave Porter, our QA guru identified a key
phase in all project development. It's
affectionately called the "Fucko Stage."
Basically, you know that a project is
finally nearing completion when you enter
the fucko stage. We haven't quite reached
that yet, but it's good he pointed it out.

The quick definition to it is that when you
get to a point where you're actively trying
to remove all the obsceneties and profanity
from the code, you know the project is almost
done.

It seems that it's an unavoidable habbit
here that all of our coders must add as 
many offending items into the internal
builds as possible. It's like it helps them
maintain sanity or something. It's just 
funny when VP's and directors then get a 
chance to play with our product and of 
course they want to see the latest and 
greatest, so with that, they also get to 
see things like the infamous naked santa,
the "gay" buttons, and also the random 
bits of cursing like "FUCKO" added in 
random places.

I can't wait for users to begin reporting
obscure error messages which tell all sorts
of horrible things about themselves. It's 
only a matter of time the way I look at it.

Regardless, with all that said, I must get 
back to my original focus, being the movies
that I bought. The other movie I got was
Airplane. That's a favorite. I tried to also
find Top Secret! but alas it wasn't available.

With that said, I'm gonna get into bed and
watch Airplane with my lover since she's
anxiously awaiting to see it.

good night.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.