Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
August 10, 2002 - 8:47PM

Wow. The Winamp3 release party was awesome.
We all had such a blast. I guess it's hard 
to not have a good time when you get in for
free and get to drink as much as you want.

It was pretty impressive, people that I
would not have necessarily expected to show
up had showed up. Also, of the people who
were there, it was nice to see everyone 
letting their hair down if you will. Shit,
Francis danced more than I did (even if it
was for only a few short minutes). I ended 
up spending most of the time just walking
around, talking to people, and getting 
drunk.

Today was ridiculously hot at the house. It
was probably around 90 something within the
house. We had our primitive methods of
cooling our sorry asses down, unfortunately
they didn't work very well. Rob and Francis
are over, which is a nice thing to see.

Looks like I'll be going to Dulles for the 
first time in a few short weeks. We're
going out there for an "All Hands" as we
call them within the company. It's just 
another one of those re-orgs, except I think
that this one might not be that bad.

I've been meaning to get me a new iPod. Don't
get me wrong, I love mine, but I want to be
able to carry my entire music collection any
place I go, and I figure that the 20 gig'er
will do the job nicely.

So far the public's reception to Winamp3 has 
been pretty good. Overall, people seem to be
pleased with the product and usage seems to
be gaining. The ammount of work that we put 
into this sucka has been crazy, I finally
feel as though it's paying off. The only thing
that we need to do now is listen to what
things people like and don't like about 
Winamp3 and slowly but surely tweak it to be
the perfect media player. Well, at least as
far as we're concerned :)

Sharon is sleeping right now. I walked in to 
the guest room and saw her curled up on the 
bed and nearly melted. She can be so adorable.
She is amazing. It was pretty interesting 
having my mom out here to visit. I think Sharon
and her bonded plenty. It was nice hearing my
mom saying nice things about her on the way
to the airport. It seemed to end on a positive
note.

Anyway, I'm pretty exhausted from the heat
all through out today. I'm going to get off
this computer and go see what the rest of the
world is up to.

Lates.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
