Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
August 24, 2002 - 10:09PM

Oh god, Justin got Tom a drumset for his birthday.
God help us all. They've been practicing all day, 
well, at least since they set it up. Maybe I'll 
warm up to it and go down there and play on them
for a little bit. Or maybe not. I don't think I 
have a musical bone in my body to tell ya the
truth.

Do you know which president is on the dime? How 
about the nickle? What about the dollar coin? It's
interesting. We got into a discussion about it over
dinner tonight and I was amazed that we were all so
confused about it. We had no idea. I was fairly
certain that I knew the dime, but Bonnie threw me 
off because there were two presidents with the same
last name ;) *hint*

I'm so full, my tummy hurts. :( We've been doing a 
lot of eating lately. I'm going to definately cut
back starting this week. Every time I go to the
office we end up going out to lunch, and I'm doing
a lot of eating out even when I'm at home. It'll be
cheaper for me to just pack a lunch or something.

Maybe I should go watch some TV or something. I'm 
trying to play with my mac more and more, but it's 
slow... :( I guess that's what I get for using a 
450 MHz machine. I want to get the upgrade to a 1GHz,
but it's just so damn expensive, we're talking $800.
If I threw a few hundred more on that,  I could get
me a new iMac or something. I think the real
tastiness comes from the new PowerMac G4's. They're
all dual cpu machines now. I think that would be
really sexy to have. Perhaps that what I should save
up and buy. It just sucks cause I really want to use
Macs but they're so damn expensive. Sucks for me I 
guess.

Anyway, I'm bored as shit on a saturday night. We
all went to dinner at this mexican place near by.
The food was "okay" at best. Maybe I should go and
jump in the hot tub later. That might be some fun,
I haven't done that in a while anyway.

Okay, enough with the plan, I'm outtie. peace.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
