Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
September 2, 2002 - 11:57PM

Oh man, what a weekend this was. Jebus, it's been
nuts. But damn, was it fun. Saturday was awesome.
We went down to San Lorenzo river and laid around
lazily and floatin' down stream. We went and
climbed up on rock formations and jumped into
watering holes. It was simply amazing.

Later on, while floating down the river, we ran 
into a nudist. He was an old man, sporting his
silver hair and wrinkly face. He seemed very 
excited to see us, and there was no pun intended.
We introduced ourselves and talked to one another
as though we had known eachother our entire lives.

His name was Marvin, like Marvin Gaye, without the
Gaye as he said. He was a man who spent much of
his time roaming California. Spending much of his
time in Northern California between Silver Creek
and Lake Tahoe. He told us of his life, his
businesses, and lost loves. We talked about our
history, life, love, religion, you know the typical
stuff ;)

Farther down the river, there was two other nudists.
One of them, a rather peculiar fellow, apparently
a univserity professor at UCSC, or so he implied 
was very loud spoken. He critisized us for not
being nudists and tried time and time again to
convince us that his way of life has made him feel
free and more relaxed. Although we appreciated his
point of view and his opinions, he failed to 
appreciate our desires to not expose ourselves for
our own reasons. 

It was humorous to see the professor and Marvin get
into an argument over nudism and the entire nudist
scene in the area. Marvin, the classic "old guy" 
was convinced that he had the edge on the professor
because he had lived in the area for over 20 years.
The professor, convinced that he just knew "better"
was just trying to shut Marvin up any chance he got.
It was like watching two male moose butt heads
trying to exclaim to the rest of the herd that he 
was now the leader. Who won in the end? It doesn't
matter. They were both naked.

Today I feel much more relaxed than I have in a
while. In the morning, I was running through a bit
of indecisiveness and confusion. I was beginning to 
drive poor Sharon. We finally decided to go home,
and once that happened, it made it all better. We 
swam in the pool for a little bit, followed by
heading to the grociery store for some food and then
we rented Dog Town and Z-boys.

I tell ya what, it was a great movie. now i'm off
to lala land. Before I leave you, I definately 
recommend going and swimming in a river and running
into nudists. It'll make your whole weekend.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.
