Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
September 15, 2002 - 11:34PM

God damn those fucking Sopranos. We spent all day
today and yesterday watching the third season of 
the sopranos so that we're refreshed before the
season premiere. 

It was a pretty tremendous weekend if you ask me. 
Dave, Erin, Jeane and Rob showed up to hang out 
yesterday. We all lounged around to watch the De
La Hoya vs. Vargas fight. Holy shit what a fight 
that was. I think it's safe to say that it was 
probably the best boxing match I'd have ever seen.

The fight was just amazing. They were both rather
evenly matched in terms of being boxers. De La Hoya
definately had more experience and was the more 
skilled boxer, whereas Vargas had the brutal street
fighter type air about him. It was literally a set
of ups and downs the entire time. It was amazing.

The end of the fight was just spectacular. Seeing
De La Hoya pound Vargass into nothingness was just
fucking spectacular. We were all just screaming at
the top of our lungs in excitement. I'd never seen
anything like it.

After that, we all cooked up dinner. It was a huge
meal. We had skirt steak, chicken and shrimp kebabs
with cheesy mashed potatos. Sharon also prepared
one of her infamous kitchen sink salads. Great
friends, great night, great atmosphere. I had a
great night. 

Today was something a little more... slow, to say
the least. It basically consisted of us all sitting
on our asses and watching TV the entire day. I can't
believe that we were able to sit as long as we did.
Had I not just taken a shower, I know my body would
be pissed at me for going from sitting all day 
straight to bed. 

The season premiere wasn't as great as it could have
been. I take it it was another one of those setting
up plot lines episodes, but still, it's the season
premiere after a year and a half of nothing, they
coulda given us a little something more interesting.

Other than that, I'm going to bed. I'm full, we had 
some "fuckin' zeedee" with chicken and steak. It was
yumm.

Night night.

-s

Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.