Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
October 5, 2002 - 10:58PM

Man, Beck's new album, Sea Change, totally fucking
rocks. I mean I've been listening to it non-stop 
for the past few days and it's so good. Beck is
good. Very good.

A bunch of us went to go see Red Dragon last night.
I must say, good fucking movie. It was much better
than the fucked up Hannibal movie that they put out
last year. The thing that I liked more about this
movie than the last was the fact that it wasn't so
gruesome. It was just highly suspenseful. It's 
kinda funny how the musical score will totally set
the movie's tone.

Today we went to the Highlands Games. This is
basically a Scottish festival based out of a park
nearby called the Highlands park. It was pretty 
cool. Good food, good music, and good fun. There's
nothing more entertaining than watching a 250lbs man
throw a 200lbs piece of wood 10 feet. The thing that
I'll most likely remember today for would be the
chills that bag-pipe music gives me. I'm not
entirely sure as to why it gives me chills, it just
does.

Just to talk about work a little bit. I'm super 
excited about all the shit that we're working on. I
feel as though all the right people are here and
that we're being fully supported for the shit that 
we're doing. It's just really exciting. By the way,
for all of you who hate those god damned AOL icons 
that get dropped on your desktop with the Winamp3 
install, they won't be in future versions of Winamp!
YAY!

We've been working on the 3.1 release of Winamp3
and it's been going rather well. We're going to be
doing another release real soon, one that just fixes
3 security bugs that we were made aware of and also
removes the AOL icons, expect it shortly. :)

Don't start asking us for when 3.1 will be out, it'll
be out when it's ready. Besides, if you know where
to look, you'll probably be able to get your hands on
the beta builds of it that come out every so often.

I wonder what people think of the Winamp3 UI. It's 
definately a cleaned up version for Winamp2, but are
people looking for something different? I mean, it's
been basically the same look and feel for the past 3
years. I personally think that this UI is pretty 
solid. It's easy to understand and fast. Maybe people
are looking for something more though. I don't know,
we should probably conduct some type of surveys or
something to try and find out.

Anyway, I'm going to go off and go play Battlefield
1942. See ya later.

-s
