Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
October 28, 2002 - 10:30PM

So yeah... uhhh.. yeah. I noticed something today.
I've gotten real good at writing complete bullshit.
Well, not complete bullshit, but the kind of
bullshit that is important within a company like 
AOL. Over the past year, one of the few realizations
I've made in this company is that people expect you
to write a LOT of documents.

I was thinking about it today, why the fuck do I
have to write all these documents. My best guess is
so that people's asses are covered for when some
thing really bad happens. I presume they want to
have some level of accountability and paper trails
are pretty good at doing that, keeping people 
accountible, that is. Doesn't necessarily mean it's
the right thing to do but eh, what are you gonna do.

Back to my point, I'm pretty good at writing these
docs. It's kinda like I found a groove. I know how
to write them such that with every new document I
have to create, it gets easier and easier. It's
almost like a skill that you practice more and more.
I haven't really made up my mind if this is all a 
good thing or not yet. 

It could be a good thing cause it's easier for me
to represent Winamp within AOL, it could be a bad
thing cause I might get lost within the system. 
Who knows. Someone today in IRC told me that all
I gotta do is stay true to my friends and keep 
representing, not in those words but the basic 
thought is pretty true. It's all a matter of, do
they think you're a sell out. I don't know if I am.
Some might say I am, am i? I don't know.

The other thing I thought about, just now, while I
was in the shower. What's going on with blogs.  What
I mean by that is, when the fuck did this become a 
mainstream thing? My girlfriend even has a blog, and
a year ago, she didn't even like computers.

I remember in highschool (mind you, that was about
5 years ago) people thought I was weird for writing
so openly on the internet for everyone to see. They
were wondering why I would share my thoughts the way
I do with millions of people I don't know. Why do I
do it? It makes me feel good. Besides, I don't think
of all the people who are reading my .plan's when 
I'm writing them, well, not usually at least. I just
write what is on my mind, and sometimes, people chime
in and tell me that they are thinking the same thing,
or going through something very similar. That's when
I realize how cool this whole internet thing really
is.

So maybe that's it. Maybe that's why people write in
blogs, because they want the random feed back of 
their readers, the reassurance that they are not
alone and that there are people, elsewhere in the
world that are going through or thinking the same 
exact thing. I guess that's pretty powerful.

I wish I wrote in my .plans more often. I mean, this
was such a great way for me to be straight with my
self. I used to write about anything here. It didn't
matter who it was about or what it was about. It was
just my place to do a brain dump. I miss that. I think
I've just been to caught up in work. 

That's another thing. Work has been nuts. If it wasn't
for Sharon, I'd probably be insane by now. She's 
amazing. When I'm stressed, she's always there,
providing me love and compassion. I only hope that I
do the same for her. I think I do, but you can never
be sure.

By the way, everyone, it was Justin's burthday 14 
days ago. If you haven't already, wish him a very
happy fucking birthday. He deserves it. He can be
a bitch sometimes (as can I) but I consider myself
very lucky that I have a friend like him. Happy
burtday justin.

Also, on another note, it was Steven B's birthday
2 days ago. I sent him a belated happy birthday 
email. I miss him, he's such a good guy. I wish that
we had the opportunity to hang out more often. It's
a shame that I live so far away from everyone that I 
hang out with. Maybe some day I'll live in the city,
god knows I'll be kicking and screaming my whole way 
there.

Okay, time for bed me thinks.

-s