Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
November 22, 2002 - 11:40PM

It's been a couple of weeks since I updated this thing.
Good times. Well, busy couple of weeks I guess. I'm 
actually pretty impressed at how much work I've been 
able to accomplish in the past couple of weeks. There's
been a lot to do, that's for sure and definitely more
to come.

It's definitely a shame that I can't really talk about 
the things that I'm working on as much as I used to 
before my "roles" changed last year. The things I focus
my time on now a days are more of long term shit that 
can't really be talked about cause it's a little more
sensitive in nature. Regardless, it's still fun, as much
as I'd love to tell you all about it.

So I'm going to LA next Tuesday and going to be down
there for a week or so. That should be fun, maybe, sorta
kinda. It'll be nice to be able to hang out with my
friends and family. I haven't done that for quite some
time, something along the lines of like 3 months or so.

Family life has definitly been a lot more tollerable 
since my brother got hitched. My mom and dad can't argue
over mundane things as much as they used to on the 
holidays since we get my bro's wife and family coming for
dinner. It's actually entertaining watching my parents
try to pretend that everything is normal and happy. When
will they ever learn?

I've got a friend who is going to be visiting from
Australia while I'm in LA. I've never met her before but
I definitely had hours and hours of conversations with 
her. Her accent is so cute. ;)

So someone sent me this <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/windowsmediaplayer/comparison.asp" target=_blank>link</a> to a page on Microsoft's 
website that literally made me laugh out loud. It's
basically a product comparison between the five major 
media players out there (I'm glad to see that Microsoft
considers us one of the big 5) Anyway, it's definitely 
entertaining to read. I'm glad that they consider "Mini-
Mode" a ground breaking feature that is not available on
other media players. The whole thing is just total bull
shit. 

It's funny to me that Microsoft always tries to out-
feature everyone else. I think it's because since it's so
hard for them to really innovate, they just spend all their
money consolidating all the features from all the different
competitive products into one product. That makes all their
apps explode with featuritus. I wonder if one day, they'll
ever really sit down and try to come up with something
really new and interesting, and something that hasn't ever
been done before. I mean come on, they based their whole 
DOJ law suit on their right to "innovate" and yet I have
yet to see them do so.

Anyway, I think I'm going to go to bed or something.

Good night.

-s