Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 5, 2003 - 12:25AM

Happy to see that some people actually still read my
.plan. I got an email from one of you readers out there
today telling me that he appreciates what we're doing
and that we still rock, despite the current situation
with Winamp out there.

That's comforting. He also pointed out how much I sway
back and forth about how I love and hate my job. How 
one minute I'm completely bored with it while the next
minute I'm saying how much I love it. He presumed that
I probably write what's on mind. With that, he was
pretty correct. I mean, yes, there's parts of my job
that I really do hate, and when I'm not happy about 
something, I tend to write about it because it helps me
feel better. Other times, there are things that I really
do love about my job, and those get me so excited that
I want to share it with you. Don't hold it against me,
I'm just very much a free flowing individual when it 
comes to my .plan.

One part that I do hate, is writing requirements 
documents. I dislike them because all the engineers
that I work with hate reading them. I presume they hate
it because they don't want to feel like they're spending
their time just implementing a list of features rather 
than coming up with it on their own. I can understand
that. But that's not what it's about. Writing those 
documents allows us to keep track of those good ideas
that we want to put into the product. 

One thing I love about my job is the fact that I get to
evangelize all the cool shit we're working on. That aspect
of my job has taken a serious beating over the past year
for one reason or another. I hope that the shit we're
working on right now helps resolve that issue.

Anyway, I gotta go to bed, I gotta wake up early tomorrow
to drive to the city, AGAIN. :/

-s
