Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
Febuary 26, 2003 - 11:35PM

It's amazing what a difference a day makes. It's
raining pretty hard outside right now. I love the
sound that rain makes on the roof of the house.
It's almost relaxing to hear.

I hate this laptop hard drive more than anything.
Holy shit do I hate it. It's really fucking loud.
Does anyone out there in lala land have any good
recommendations in regards to a good quiet 20-30gb
laptop hard drive? I'd appreciate anything really.

AOL has these things called Focal Point Reviews.
Basically, you fill out a form telling them what
you acomplished within the past year, and they
give you a raise based off that. It's been kinda
funny, with every year that has gone by, I feel as
though I've accomplished less and less. That's
because the nature of my job has changed more and
more I guess. At first, I did a lot of the website
stuff, so I totally rocked out, but now that I 
write word documents and make powerpoint
presentations all day long, I don't seem to
accomplish nearly as much.

So I got a speeding ticket on my way to LA for the
holidays which I elected to take traffic school.
It's all a shame these days. You have to pay the
traffic ticket "bail ammount" as they call it. Then
you have to pay a fee to have the right to take 
traffic school, than you take traffic school, all
so that you don't have to pay more for your car
insurrance. What kinda shit is that? Anyway, I
decided that I'd cave and took the traffic school.

I did it online at webtrafficschool.com. It was 
relatively easy. I had it done in less than 4 hours,
that's with me fucking around and doing stuff in the
background. They make you read about 30 web pages
of shit to answer 25 questions. You pay $25 and they
mail you out a certificate that says you completed 
it. Not a bad deal, a dollar a question I guess.

Anyway, I'm just glad that it's done and over with.
Now I don't have to worry about forgetting to do it.

Also, I wanted to just mention how much Handspring
rocks. For some reason, the backlight on my Treo 
got the bright idea of breaking. I called Handspring
today and they said, sure no problem, we'll send you 
out a new unit by Friday and you can just put yours
in the box and send it back. That's service. I can't
wait to get the new device. The one I had I had a 
little scratch on the display and the cover had a
defective moulding when I bought it. Now I get one
that doesn't suck.

I'm just waiting for their Palm OS 5 based PDAs. 
The moment they release one, I'm heading down to the
stores and picking one up. If anyone has any info on
when it'll be out or what the offering is going to be,
I'd love to know.

All right. Time for bed.

Good night muchachas.

-s
