Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 4, 2003 - 12:32AM

I can't beleive it. I bought this new hard
drive for my old laptop. Holy shit. It's 
literally quiet. You can't even tell the
computer is on anymore. I can actually hear
myself think again. It's a miracle.

I'm laying in bed right now, slowly winding
down from my day. It was a long one. I did
end up waking up at 9:00AM this morning, but
I ended up working till like 7:00PM, so that
makes up for it.

Work, I must say, has been interesting. It's
been very challenging. There's so much shit
going on right now, no one on the outside
has any idea. I know that many of our users
feel like we've lost sight of what's
important and that we might be ignoring them.
That beleif couldn't be more farther from
the truth. We're going to be making some 
tremendous changes on our end over the
remainder of this year. It will be shocking.
It will be great.

I've started playing Quake 3 again with a few
people from work. It's been a lot of fucking
fun. It's nice to know that I still got it.
Well, compared to everyone else I know. Justin
and Christophe and I pretty much are even in
terms of skill. We end up rocking each others
asses for about an hour or so at a time. Highly
enjoyable.

God, I can't get over how nice and quiet my
laptop is now. It's fantastic. I realized
today how great Norton Ghost is. I mean, for
once, Symantec got something right. It could
be a little more clear with that whole master
slave shit when it came to doing backups via
tcp/ip. other than that, it was stellar. The
part I liked most about it was it resized the
original partiition to fill the new added
drive space. I thought that was quite slick.

Hmm, I wonder what Sharon is doing in the 
bathroom. I guess I took my sweet as time in
there too. I started to floss after I met 
Sharon and shit, I wish now that I had never
started :) It's like, the moment you start, 
you start getting all sorts of shit stuck
in your teeth. It becomes unmanagable. Every
10 minutes you end up wanting to floss. You
can't even drink water without shit getting 
stuck in your teeth.

I'm really excited. My parents are flying to
Turkey to go visit friends and family for
three whole fucking months. I don't have to 
hear their guilt trips or bitching for three
WHOLE months. I mean, don't get me wrong. I 
definitely love my parents. They just can be
a little exhaustive. 

That leads me into the next topic, being I 
watched "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" tonight
with Sharon and holy crap did I realize that
that's exactly what my life is like. I mean,
those Greeks are like identical to us Armos.
It's really quite scary. Good times.

Okay, time for bed.

Nitenite.

-s
