Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
Febuary 24, 2003 - 11:54PM

It's nice to have this laptop working again. I 
kinda miss it. It's been sitting in the corner
collecting dust because I've been too lazy to 
reformat the thing and get it working. The
other reason why I didn't use it is because it's
fucking unbelievably loud. I think Sony thought
it would be a good idea to save a few bucks on
every unit they shipped by using a low grade 
hard drive. The result? Everyone I know who owns
a Sony laptop complains about how brain numbingly
loud they are. Good job Sony, way to go, glad 
you guys were able to save a few million. Nice
to know that I won't be a return customer.

What's the next laptop I'm going to buy you ask?
Well, that's an Apple Powerbook of course. Not
because they're incredibly sexy to look at or 
because it's just the "in" thing to do these days.
I want to buy it for a few reasons:

1. OS X is actually really great. It does what I 
   when I want, the way I want it. It's fast, 
   reliable, and shit, even their BSOD is friendly.
2. More bang for your buck. People say, yeah, but
   Macs are so much more expensive, why would you
   invest so much into a computer. I agree with
   those people whole-heartedly. When it comes to
   a desktop, PC's are hands down cheaper and get
   the job done. When it comes to a laptop, you
   usually get stuck buying from a major vendor
   and paying an arm and a leg doing it. I'd much
   rather give those dollars to Apple because they
   make a far superior product.
3. iPod's own. Being a proud owner of not only one,
   but two iPods (I gave one to my girlfriend) I
   must admit, Apple nailed the portable devices.
   And no matter, what, using an iPod with Music
   Match Jukebox makes me feel like I'm pulling 
   teeth from a 15 year old, knocked up kitten,
   about to give birth to a litter under a dumpster.
4. Macs don't evolve as fast as x86 hardware. Some
   people would probably see that as a bad thing,
   but when it comes to laptops, due to their highly
   limited upgradablility, Powerbooks are way ahead
   of what's available in the marketplace. So I look
   at it as an investment in the future.
5. Freedom from the nightmare that is becoming the
   PC. Everyone and their mom is trying to make my 
   PC into a uber secure platform where users don't
   have a choice to use them the way they want. Well,
   I'm going to put my money where my mouth is. Fuck
   DRM's. Fuck these insanely written EULA's from 
   you know who giving them access to everything I
   own. I'm gonna switch because Apple is my only 
   way out.

Need I say more? I probably could, but I'm going to
refrain. I'm going to spend this time giving my
girlie a back rub and then I'm going to go to bed.

Good night, sleep tight, don't let the bed bugs bite.

-s
