Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
Febuary 23, 2003 - 12:01AM

Sharon's out at work. I'm looking forward to her coming
home tonight. I miss her. I feel kinda bad. There was a
party for a friend of mine who is moving to San Francico.
Since Sharon's at work and she's more her friend than
mine, neither of us showed up. I hope this person doesn't
think I don't appreciate her, I just didn't want to go
by myself.

So there was this article on News.com regarding a new
approach to stop the herds of people who are pirating
online over P2P networks. It frustrates me to say the
least. Over the past two years since Napster's inception,
they have not detered piracy one bit. They keep investing
more and more these days into technological measures to 
deter piracy. It gains them nothing. Within a few weeks,
new and more powerful tools are released as workarounds
for what these media conglomerates just paid millions to 
create. The worst part about it is these hackers are only
creating tools that are even more difficult to stop.

No one seems to understand that it's not about forcing 
people to stop pirating. It's about enabling people to
buy it legally and use it the way they want. I've tried 
using these subscription services that are out there
today and it's TOTALLY depressing. They all suffer from
the same flaws. To put it one sentence, IF I were to
pirate a piece of media, than I have ultimately more 
freedom to use it the way I want (i.e. choose my player, 
portable device, or other use cases) than I do if I were 
to pay for it via these services. The fact that I can't 
play a song that I just downloaded from PressPlay and play
with Winamp, or transfer it to my iPod is simply retarded.
The only way that any of these services will ever be a 
success is if they can provide a better user experience 
and more convienence than the pirated counterpart.

These subscription services are supposedly going after 
the 'early adopter' crowd. When it comes to media I'd be
say that I'm an early adopter. I have many friends that
are too early adopters. How come we ALL think that these
existing subscription services ALL SUCK? 


The areas that these services consistently fail are in:
 - Flexibility to use the media I just paid for in the way
   that I want:
   - Burn all the tracks I downloaded to CD.
   - Transfer it to my portable device.
   - Choose the player that I can play it back with.
 - Limited catalog only appeals to the masses, and yet
   only early adopters are willing to try. Early adopters
   do not live off Britney Spears. They like Kruder & 
   Dorfmeister.
   - Searching for Beck returned me 1 album on MusicNet.
 - Ease of use is significantly lower with the legal methods:
   - Many services have a series of nasty DRM schemes that
     have noticable impacts on system performance.
   - I can't use the media the way I want. - Points back to 
     the flexibility issues.
 - Fidelity is lower on legal alternatives than on pirated.
   - Fact of the matter is, people who rip content themselves
     take more time and effort to ensure that the audio
     encodings are the best they can sound. People do this by
     configuring the settings and choosing the codecs that best
     match the media. Guess what, the legal alternatives pretty
     much all sound like crap because they choose codecs from
     the companies that cut them the best deal. Ususally
     resulting in less than spectacular fidelity.

Instead of making it easy, they just make it hard for those
interested in being paying customers. Truth of the matter is,
I don't blame them. A lot of these media companies have had
the rug swept out from under them. They didn't see any of this
coming. However, I do blame them for not seeing the huge
opportunity that was presented to them. Now people think that
music isn't worth anything and that they should just get it for
free. Had they realized the potential demand and delivered a 
product that filled the need, they would be in a very different 
place.

I bought a copy of Battlefield 1942, and the piracy prevention
measures they've put in the game makes me not want to buy any
more products from EA. I bought the fucking thing and they make
me wait before every time I launch the game and load a multi-
player map for the fucking CD verification shit. Let me spell
it out for all of you companies out there looking to stop piracy.
People who want to pirate software will pirate, those who don't
will pay. Adding layers of complexity to prevent someone from 
pirating only pisses off the people who you should care about the
most, your paying customers.

-s