Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
Febuary 28, 2003 - 12:35AM

You know, this Windows Remote Networking Connection
crap actually rocks. I'm on my laptop right now, and
I can easily connect to the PC in the office and
control the thing anyway that I like. I think that
that pretty much owns.

Sharon is sitting here next to me on the bed right
now. She's watching the screen as I type, ever so
closely. It makes me happy that she's so attenttive
to what I do. She also says that she likes the way
it sounds when I type, almost like little tap dancers
dancing the night away. That's a quaint little
image I reckon. 

Last night, I was up later than Sharon when we went
to bed. I was doing this very act, filling out my
.plan when I realized that it was late. I decided 
to turn all of this off and finally get to bed. When
I turned over to cuddle with Sharon, she was sleeping
so deeply that I was unable to get her to cooperate
in that whole cuddling thing. I was quite annoyed. I
wanted nothing more in that world at that moment than
to have her as close as possible to me. Fortunately
for me, she awoke several minutes later as she was
simply re-adjusting in her sleep. Immediately, she 
noticed that I was ready and willing to recieve her
cuddle power. I was pleased. She was happy I was 
pleased. We slept well.

On that note, it is yet again time for I to go to
sleep. Only this time, I get the benefit of cuddling
with Sharon without having to move her in the ways
I want like a lump of coal.

Good night. Sleep tight. Don't let the bed bug bites.

-s
