Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 5, 2003 - 11:18PM

Hot, I got in two .plan updates in one day. I'm doing really
well with this whole updating this thing on a regular basis
crap.

Today was an interesting day. not because anything great
happened, but something stupid happened. I was in a meeting
with a bunch of execs and peers and what not. It's a monthly
meeting that happens for us all to get together and talk about
all the cool shit we're all working on. Anyway, the funny thing
that happened was as I was reviewing Winamp with everyone, I
had a screenshot of a new version of the Winamp client up, and
Justin and Christophe had decided to call a particular button
the "Do Shit" button. I had of course forgotten about that
button at this point. I had the words "Do Shit" the size of 
my head being projected up on the wall. To say the least, it
was both uncomfortable and funny at the same time.

Hmm, I think Rob got me sick. My nose is starting to get
congested and I'm starting to get a head ache. I get very angry
when I get sick, it makes me want to kill. Well, not literally
kill, but I do get pretty mad :)

So for valentine's day, I bought Sharon a digital camera and
an underwater diving kit for it so that she could take it 
scuba diving with her. Unfortunate, the company that I bought
the underwater kit from really screwed up my order. They got it
out to me a month after I ordered the fucking thing to start it
off. Once I got the thing, I gleefully open the UPS box to find
the underwater case strewn into the box, and the box for the case
open with it's contents spread out through the UPS box.

Then, low and behold, to top it off, the box says the case is 
the model I ordered, but the camera case it self is actually a
different model. They sent me the WP-DC500 when I ordered the 
600. What does it mean? Well, it means that the camera case they
sent me is too big for my camera. 

Fortunately, I called them and they were totally willing to help
me out. Unfortunately, in the interest of time, I had to order
another one from them, and they were going to send me a box to
put the one I have in and send it back. Totally ridiculous. Oh
well, I just hope I get what I fucking ordered.

Okay, time for bed I think. I'm going to go make some nice herbal
tea and go to bed.

Nite nite.

-s