Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 15, 2003 - 1:43AM

Wow, LA really sucks. Well, not completely, but there's
definitely a higher percentage of suck per square mile
than most other places. It's pretty amazing actually the
amount of suck you'll find in LA. I think it's mostly the
people though, not so much the land.

The one thing that helps me notice how much I love Sharon
is not being able to cuddle with her as we drift off to 
sleep. It's really quite amazing how week our bodies fit
into each other so well. The moment we both get into bed,
we just become tightly knit into one another. We become
one solid piece of love goo. It's hard for me to describe,
but the feeling I get during that 5 or 10 minutes we have
while we're still concious prior to falling asleep, that's
pure extasy. I stay awake the whole day looking forward to
that one moment.

It sucks not being able to have that whenever you want.
As I lay here, in LA, in my brothers old room (my room is
now rented out to some other dude) I look at my laptop 
screen, glaring at pictures of my love, wishing I was near
her. I really sound cheesy, but it's true. Sharon is amazing.
She's intelligent, extremely funny, loves to laugh,
beautiful, agressive, likes dancing.... err... She's just
amazing.

I remember Brennan would joke about how the first real
relationship I had would be all that it took, I'd find the
gal I was going to be with for ever. He hasn't been wrong 
thus far. I can't imagine a life without Sharon. It's just
too easy being with one another. 

As for our problems? We don't have any really glaring ones.
I see others in their own relationships and so many have
these issues that they struggle to work through daily. I
don't get that vibe from Sharon. I feel like emotionally
we're both generally on the same page. It's nice to have 
someone so in sync with you on that level. It makes the day
to day so much easier.

Tomorrow, it's supposed to rain. I'm a little bummed because
I wanted to take my dog out on a nice long walk through the
neighborhood. I may not have that opportunity if it rains.
I miss my dog so very much. She's aging gracefully. I found
a hard lump on her this afternoon. It's on her rib cage. I
fear that it might be something like cancer. It's been 
weighing on my mind. Her behavior would lead me to beleive
that it's nothing because she's been so happy and active,
more than I've seen in a long while. We'll see what the vet
says.

Okay, time for bed. It's roughly 2:00AM and I think I'm
going to try and get an early start tomorrow morning. Good
night and sleep well.

-s