Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 19, 2003 - 1:22AM

Went to Sushi tonight with a bunch of friends. It
was good times. I had jumbo crab. I had Tuna on 
fried rice cake. I had tastey salmon skin handroll.

I *heart* sushi. 

Then Edward and I headed off to go catch a movie. 
We saw Tears of the Sun. It was pretty good. It's
a story of a military mission that goes bad because
of a call that the leutenant makes out in the field.
He decides to gain a conscience which complicates 
the mission to the point where over half his team
dies, but he ends up saving the day.

It glorifies those soldiers who choose to not follow
orders for the sake of doing "the right thing". Not
sure if that's a good thing or a bad thing. I think
the thing it made me realize is, sure they make a 
movie about a handfull of soliders that do what it 
takes to save the lives of innocent men, women, and
children; but what about the countless soliders that
end up following orders and letting hundreds if not
thousands of refugees die through out the world. I
think that's a much more interesting message to be 
getting out there. Sad but true.

Anyway, with war basically almost a day or two away,
it's going to be interesting to see what the future
holds for us. Many people are expecting the war to 
not take very long with a very clear defeat for the
US. We'll see. I am very concerned that Saddam is at
a point where he's going to try and take as many
people out with him. I hope this is not the case, but
it seems like that's the kind of person he would be.

I fear for all the innocent civilians that are going
to be caught up in all this. It's a dangerous world
out there and it doesn't appear to be getting any
safer, especially with the US being as aggressive as
it is today.

Good night.

-s