Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 20, 2003 - 5:33PM

It's official. Here we go, we're going into war.
I've been talking about the subject with many of
my friends about whether we're doing the right 
thing or not. I've heard many opinions. It's hard
to say what the right course of action is.

Do I feel that removing Saddam is necessary? Yeah,
I think I do. Remove him under the beleif that 
he's a threat or connected to terrorist organizations
like Al Queda? No, that's bullshit. He's not a
threat to this country. He's a threat to those 
around him and his own people. His disregard for
human life is a reason to remove him. The fact that
the our administration is trying to build support
with minimal evidence under pretenses that don't 
add up is blasphemous. 

The man is a horrible leader who has deprived his
nation basic human rights. He's an evil that should
have been removed years ago. I am infurated that
our government would try and have us and the rest
of the world beleive that he should be removed 
because he's a threat to the rest of us.

Anyway, I hope that this war is swift and focused
on removing the evil only. I think that the saddest
side effect of this is that this has been a huge 
step back for diplomacy and the U.N. Bush basically
told the world that the U.N. doesn't mean shit and
that all that forward progress made since it's 
inception is fucking meaningless. 

Whatever, I'm going to play some video games and 
get my mind off this.

-s
