Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 24, 2003 - 8:33AM

We release Winamp 2.90 to the forums the other day,
incase you didn't know. It's includes some really
solid features. There's work that remains to be done
for sure, but it's moving along extremely fast.

Expect more releases over the next several months
as we work towards making Winamp king shit again.

I am fucking exhausted from activity. I was in LA
a week ago, came back, did some hectic training shit
in Mountain View. Then this weekend, I spent it in
Monterey Bay, getting my SCUBA certification. That
was highly exhaustive. Two days of lectures and 
gearing up in a swimming pool. My body is thouroughly
pissed off at me.

I also ended up getting drunk on Friday and Saturday
night. That didn't appease my body's anger by any
means. I was letting loose some beer farts all day
saturday, the kind that makes your eyes squint because
it's so thick in oder and muster. Suffice to say, NOT
good times.

Only thing I hate about having really active weekends
is the fact that when Monday rolls around, you feel
like you didn't have a moment to rest. That's a bit 
frustrating. I usually am fine if I get to just lounge
around on Sunday and do my own thing. That didn't end
up happening this weekend. Regardless, I'm super stoked
that I got this certification thing out of the way. I'm
really looking forward to going down under water and
checking out what's down there.

I spent some of the weekend on re-doing the Winamp 2
default skin. I basically redrew it cleaning it up. Up
until now, it's been using the same graphic files for
the past 3 years or so and hasn't had a little face
lift in all that time. Justin and I have been going 
back and forth on specific issues of the design, but
I think we're pretty close to resolving them at this 
point. I'm not sure if the new skin will make it into
2.90, maybe it will.

Okay, I got a shit load of stuff to do today. No more
mucking around.

Later.
-s