Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
March 30, 2003 - 9:43AM

I've had a very interesting thread of emails going with
a marine sargent since I posted my .plan about how I
think our administration is waging this war under false
pretenses. He basically started out telling me that I'm
wrong for saying what I'm saying and that the soldiers
out there right now are out there with the goal of 
liberating the Iraqi people and that's all that matters.
Bashing on the war is unjust and unfair for all those
who are dying for that cause.

The argument over time morphed into whether or not it is
a good idea for me, as a U.S. citizen to be questioning
and disagreeing with the administration in a forum that
is accessible from anyone, anywhere in the world. That I
should be expressing my opinions, here, in the U.S.
rather than writing about it somewhere everyone can read,
including our soldiers, and give the idea that we as a 
nation are being held hostage by our leadership. Granted
I'm exagerating it a bit, but basically, that's the notion.

I've tried to make it very clear over and over again that
I'm not necessarily against this war. I'm against the way
the war was started, the rushed sense of urgency created
by our leadership. I'm against the fact that the U.S. has
now basically made it seem that the U.N. is unimportant
and that all the progress made towards a world government
thus far have now been set back. I'm pissed off that this
government, in order to gain support, has tried to convince
us using circumstantial evidence at best for Iraq ties with
al Queda and that Iraq indeed has "weapons of mass
destruction." I'm against the fact that members our 
administration is hooking up their buddies at their old 
posts in companies in the U.S. to go and rebuild Iraq when
we go in there and destroy their already weak infrastructure.

This war is extremely frustrating because it was rushed.
The due process set forth by the U.N. was not followed,
for no other reason than President Bush claiming that he's
"running out of patience". How do you run out of patience
when the welfare of millions of people on the other side of
the world are at stake. How do you run out of patience when
~200 countries across the globe are denouncing the war before
it has even started. On top of that, protests, larger than
any other in the history of man are saying "NO WAR", our
President is quoted as saying "listening to these protests
is like me listening to focus groups." It's simply 
blasphemous.

One of the many good points that this sargent did bring up
that I'd like to share with you is this. The choice of not
having a war is no longer an option. This type of unrest
and upheaval does not help those soldiers already out there.
When they only hear that there are thousands upon thousands 
of poeple who are objecting to this war doesn't help their
morale. Those people are there believing that they are there
to help make Iraq a better place and we're not helping them
by protesting the war. I hear that. But I feel compelled
not to take heed to that for one reason alone. If the
protesting that I'm a part of has the potential of ending
the war one day earlier and sparing the lives of those who 
might be lost with this war, than it's worth it.

I do believe that we as a nation have to do whatever it takes
to make sure that our soldiers come back to a place that is
accepting and appreciates the sacrifices that they make. 
They did not choose to go to war, they are following the
orders that are handed to them. Their loyalty and resolve to
completeting those orders is extremely valued. None of what
they are doing is in question. I only question those who are
giving them the orders. 

Anyway, this is enough of this for me.

-s
