Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
April 9, 2003 - 10:52PM

This has definitely been an interesting week. This
last weekend, Sharon unveiled her birthday plans 
for me. She wanted to take me and a select group
of my friends to go sky-diving. Unfortunately, it
didn't happen because Tom, Justin, and Francis were
all ill. We're probably going to try and make it
happen when Sharon and I get back from Catalina.

Speaking of which, I'm so excited to be going. I'm
leaving on Monday to go for 6 days, 5 nights. I 
look forward to finally starting to SCUBA diving.
I also am looking forward to not doing SHIT for a 
week. Just spending the time relaxing and not
thinking about work or any of the other bullshit
that goes on in life. Oh goodness it's going to 
rock.

Last Sunday we took Sophie (the house dog) to the
dog beach again. It's SOO much fun to take her 
there. I tell you, if you have never done it, take
your dog to a dog park or somewhere where many 
dogs get to go and play. It's both adorable and 
extremly hilarious at the same time. The dogs do
at times team up and pick on some dogs, but all in
all, they seem to always be in great spirits. Just
watching the joy and excitment that they get from
sniffing one anothers butts really can make your
day.

Some people have noticed that our forums are down.
We know, our operations people are on it and should
have it back up sometime soon. Apologies for the 
inconvienence.

Other than that, I've been really happy lately,
despite the stresses and craziness of work. I'm 
just looking forward to getting started on the 
site and client redesign plans for Winamp 5. 

Okay, gotta go to bed because I'm hitting the 
office tomorrow, yet again...

nitenite.

-s