Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
April 5, 2003 - 8:11PM

Today is the day that my girlfriend wanted me to
have my birthday celebration. She's so wonderful.
So the big surprise that she had aranged for me
was that she basically got a bunch of my friends
to come with me sky diving today. Unfortunately
that didn't work out so it's been postponed for a
little while until everyone's schedule works out 
to match.

Tomorrow I'm going to do my check-out dives for
Scuba. I can't wait. Once all this stuff is done
and I get my certification, I'm all ready to go 
diving in Catalina. I'm so fucking excited it's
not even funny.

Today, Sharon, myself, Rob, and Ryan hung out in
Santa Cruz and rode our bikes around. It was 
splendid. We went down by the beach and rode
through some small neighborhoods and stuff. Then
we went back to Rob's and had some lunch. Then
Sharon, Rob, and I went and took Sophie to the 
dog beach where she played with the other visiting
dogs for about two hours. It's always so much 
fun watching her play and be so happy with the 
other dogs. It's almost imposible to not have a
huge smile on your face. 

Sophie is now crashed out on the couch. She has
been sleeping since we left the beach at 5:45. 
Something tells me she's not really going to get
back up to have some fun until sometime tomorrow
afternoon. Good that we wore out the little runt.

Claire and Tom are now making me a birthday cake
and they ordered a pizza to come up here later 
tonight. Rob's probably going to head up here
later and we're all probably going to hang out and
get nice and drunk. Sounds like my idea of a good
time.

Okay, enough me being anti-social. Later.

-s