Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>

<span style="font-size:small;">I forbid anyone from quoting my .plan for use in anything without
my written concent. Please. For the love of God. Do not quote me.

I maintain this .plan as a collection of my PERSONAL thoughts. They
do not represent the ideas or beliefs of where I work, or the people
I work with. Now... Get on with it.</span>


Plan:
April 24, 2003 - 12:11AM

Happy Armenian Genocide day. Today is the day that the
Armenian Genocide began in 1915. It is said that on this 
day, the Ottoman Turkish leader, Ataturk, ordered the 
slaying of all the top leaders, authors, poets, and 
intellectuals of the Armenian culture living in Turkey 
at the time.

Once this order was completed, the Turkish army was said
to be ordered to round up all the Armenian men, women,
and children and collected. Some were said to be raped,
others beaten. I've been told that they were then taken
and forced to march across the harsh lands of eastern
Turkey to the west, without food nor water. I've heard
that those who survived the death marches were then 
collected near a lake, I forget the name, for a mass 
execution. It was said that there remained a mountain 
of bones and the lake filled with the blood of those 
masacred. Throughout the course of the military act,
over 1.5 million Armenians were slaughtered.

It was the first of ethnic cleansing act of the century
and is one of the tragic points in the history
of any culture. To this day the Turkish government has 
yet to acknowledge the Genocide as something that was 
part of it's dark past. 

In a speech to an inner circle of the Nazi party, Hitler
was quoted as saying "Today, who remembers the Armenian 
massacres?" when confronted by Armin Wegner in regards to
Jewish Holocaust. Many people around the world celebrate 
this day to remember those whose lives were taken away, and
to hope that ethnic cleansing is stopped everywhere.

That's my rant for the day.

Good night :)

-s