Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/archive/index.phtml?path=plan">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
August 02, 2001 - 10:22PM

Wow, it's been quite a while, hasn't it? So
I guess that's what happens when you get a 
companion, doesn't it? You spend the first 
few months completely enwrapped within one
anothers arms, hoping that the moment will
never end. Alas, at one point or another it
does. Fortunately, that point hasn't arrived
for Sharon and I quite yet. We've been so 
much wrapped within one anothers lives at
this point, the lines that divide mine from
hers are slowly starting to desolve.

Am I happy about all this? Yes, I beleive so.
She's an amazing woman. Unlike any other I
have encountered thus far. She's inspiring,
passionate, affectionate, and geniune. What 
more can I possibly ask for? I'm not sure.
I'm sure I'll think of something, someday,
but not today.

Winamp.com was completely fucked last night.
The site was pretty much down since 3:00PM
on the first and didn't return to normal 
operation till about 12:00PM this afternoon.
It totally sucked. Many of us lost much
sleep over it, it ended up being this stupid
little bug in some obscure file located in
some obscure folder. They always are. 

Work is just going along. Things are going 
along without much intervention from me these
days. It's been good. Let's see how long it
lasts before someone decides that things have
been good for too long and decide to fuck
everything by replacing a few managers here 
and there and decide that we're not efficient
enough or something, inadvertently letting
some people go in the process. I'm not saying
that that sort of thing has ever happened,
but these days, anything can happen. I think
AOL's looking for a reason to get rid of 
anyone they can, just so they can "meet
their numbers". 

But the truth really is, I'm a liar. I make
all of this up. It's simply a concoction of
my sleep deprived delirious mind. So please,
ignore this update. I shall speak to ye all
in a much more managable state soon enough.

Good day and night to you all.

-s