Account Name:  charliew
Email address: charliew@finger.3drealms.com
----------
Just wanted to offer a couple of clarifications and elaborations and pontifications and fornications and celebrations of Keith's .plan update regarding the woes and funs of hooking up your consoles to your VGA monitor. I was given a Gamecube for Christmas, so my bias goes that way instead of the XBox.

Anyways, a quick correction: The Pelican VGA box was only about $40, not a little over $100. This is a great box if you just want something reasonably cheap to use. I played through the entire Hero side of Sonic Adventure 2 and never thought "I kinda wish the picture were better". After seeing it in Progressive output I don't want to go back, but it was fine on it's own.

If you do decide to follow the road less travelled with your Gamecube, then as Keith mentioned... not all games will support the Progressive output. What's this mean? If you are remotely sane and want to avoid the hassle of constantly plugging and unplugging your video cables to go between them then you will definitely want a switchbox. This is one major advantage the Gamecube does have over the XBox in this system, as it will allow you to output both Composite and Progressive signals at the same time. Keep in mind though, the menus only display in Composite as well. It boggles my mind that both Nintendo and Microsoft would develop these consoles with this video support out of the box, but for some reason decided to *not* allow their menus to support the Progressive output. Perhaps they felt the number of people who would use a VGA monitor to play them wasn't significant enough to support that, and they are probably right. We are like those two guys on a forum who also happen to sit in the same room moaning over some obscure feature that the rest of the world really doesn't care about.

Anyways, another correction: You do not need to hold down a button (on the games I've tried) to get the Progressive menu option. The game automatically detects the signal and brings up the menu. This means that even if you can't see the picture all you have to do is hit the "A" button to start it up in Progressive once you know the menu is up (mostly guess work but it's a console so you can also just keep mashing "A" over and over till it works... you know you do it anyways). This doesn't help you with games that don't support Progressive though.

So, as Keith mentioned... I went to Fry's and grabbed myself that MasterView USB KVM CS-104U Switchbox (I swear nobody is paying us to write these things) and from the moment I got it hooked up I fell in love. It supports up to 4 connections, gets it's power via any of the USB ports on the computers you have piped into it, and allowed me to get rid of the second monitor on my desk. It's just a good switchbox in it's own right. Oh, and the picture is flawless. Just make sure you can send your mouse and keyboard outputs to USB since it doesn't accept PS/2 connections. However the best thing

My new poster for the mapper room ceiling just arrived... got distracted... Hello Mandy Moore! :D What was I saying?

Ahhh, ok... the best thing about the switchbox as a Gamecube user though is I can route both my Composite signal via the Pelican box and the Progressive signal via the other box to the remaining two switches and suddenly I've got all I need to fully enjoy the system. I can access the menus, and if a game doesn't support Progressive (mostly the ports from other consoles like Crazy Taxi and SSX Tricky) it can still be played without switching any cables.

So what's all this mean in the end? The Gamecube is obviously the superior gaming system and Keith is gonna be begging to borrow it by the end of the summer. That and Mandy Moore is just really damn cute.

Feel free to ask any questions if you are trying to do the same thing and are running into any roadblocks. Hopefully it will motivate me to finally respond to everyone who sent in suggestions for the Music de la Pedo cd as well (which is now a double CD, I just gotta finally sit down and make the final cut on which songs should stay and which songs should go).

Wieder rolls his poster back up and rolls on back to work...
