Account Name:  charliew
Email address: charliew@finger.3drealms.com
----------
"To this day, the only public information about the game consists of a handful of screenshots that look suspiciously mocked up."

You know, there really isn't a better compliment you can get. Especially on shots that are going on a year and a half old.

----

Anyways, on to other stuff. From time to time George and I have been kicking around the idea of just shutting the hell up until the game is done. This has been happening more and more often lately and astute forum regulars and trolls alike might be able to venture a guess why. Getting in the mud and arguing with the fans is a lot of fun, especially when you find a group of people who can take it as just that and don't want us to act like salesmen when we talk with them.

Well, I woke up this morning and thought "Today is the day". So I finally took a shower after 6 months. I'm sure my co-workers will appreciate this. After the shower though, I decided to just shut up until the game has "Gone Gold". Once it is out I'll be bursting with energy to talk to everyone about it, offer suggestions for mod authors on getting things to work, help fixing issues, whatever.

To make it more than just a "promise to not post on forums"... if I do post somewhere, I'll owe the entire company dinner at someplace of their choice (Kobe, whatever). This lowly level designer's salary will be quite impacted by feeding the entire crew (my ferrari is on layaway), so if I intend to make my car payment the next month, I'll have to stay off the forums. :) 

Thanks for the fun for those of you that were enjoyable to talk/argue/bitch with and are comfortable with the concept of some developers being people with opinions, and more importantly enjoy expressing those opinions. It's kinda funny that the times I was accused of thinking I'm "better" than the fans was always when I treated them like equals, as opposed to a fragile toy that I had to be careful with, otherwise it would break. *sigh* Off to my cave I go...

Wieder pulls the stone over the entrance to his cave and hangs a sign up "Coming out When I'm Done".