Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Corvus
Email: none
Description: Main Character
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 05/07/1998 12:04:38 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
From the Journals of Corvus the Wanderer

I have seen terrible places, and I have done terrible things.  
These things I do not regret, except when I am alone, missing beautiful Parthoris.  The faces of my people are now etched in my memory in the terrible contortions of torment and oppression.  For this offense, I will never find forgiveness in my heart.  I can only hope that I will see the Sidhe faces, as they once were - perfect and beautiful. It has only been a day, or so I have calculated since this infernal world has no day or night cycle (just an eternal twilight of sorts), since I arrived here from the realm that spawned D'sparil.  

	D'sparil is dead, as are his minions, so Parthoris and my people are free from the curse of his oppression, but I discovered something there that greatly disturbs me.  D'sparil was not alone.  The ether realm that he calls home spawned several Serpent Riders.  While I wasn't able to determine the exact number, more certainly exist.  I can't in good conscience wish them on someone else, but I pray to what ever gods are left that they don't follow in D'sparil's footsteps and invade Parthoris.  I hope that whatever land they do make war on is fortunate enough to have someone that can stand up to them, before all of their lands are enslaved.  If only I had been a true hero and saved Parthoris before it fell into the clutches of his evil sorcery, then perhaps so many would not have died.

	My sleep has been restless with dreams of my battle with 
D'sparil.  I can see D'sparil erupting into a pyre of flame as the Phoenix slams into his body.  Every detail of the dream is so real that I can almost taste the soot rolling off his burning corpse. As I stand watching him writhing in the combined agony of my people, basking in the flames of my victory, I can hear the screams of his death.  Buried within these agonizing cries lies all of the hate and anger that drove him to destroy and conquer my people.  It is this voice that I can hear cursing my very existence.  No matter how many nights this dream haunts my sleep, I can never really understand the exact words that he utters, but the essence of the curse washes over me like the frigid water of a frozen lake.  It makes my bones and heart ache in the complete despair of its depravity. 

	The dream ends then, but the bitter sense of hopelessness remains with me even now as I write these words.  I don't understand what the curse was, but I fear it more than I feared D'sparil himself.  It is a baser, more instinctual childhood fear.

	When I was a child, growing up in Silverspring, I had a habit of wandering under the docks of the city looking for shells and starfish that had washed up out of the ocean.  There was an old Ssithra man that was willing to pay for the really good shells.  He used them to make very intricate tapestries, which he took home and sold to his people.  He required the shells to be in perfect condition, so I began venturing out into the water to find the best shells before they were smashed into the rocks under the piers.  I even constructed a crude cage out of wood and twine bits that I had found lying around amidst the rest of the refuse Silverspring seemed to hide under the docks. I used it to collect the shells while I waded through the water.
	This particular day I had wandered out farther than I usually do.  The water was deeper than I was tall, so I was swimming to the bottom of the bay and scooping up handfuls of dirt and sifting through them for worthy shells.    The water in the bay isn't very salty, like in the deeper ocean so I tended to swim with my eyes open.  Sometimes I would stop and just look at the ocean and the light filtering down through the water.  I always thought to myself that there couldn't be anything more beautiful.  It was like falling into a trance because nothing else mattered to me when I was like that.  
	It was when I was in one of these states of awe that I was aroused, suddenly, into a state of sudden and uncontrollable panic.  I don't know what caused it, but there I was just floating about 5 feet underwater and everything was suddenly enveloped in a deep shadow.  The sun was gone and I couldn't see more than a foot or two in front of me.  I spun around, and for one very panicked moment I was lost.  Any sense of up or down were lost to me; I was convinced that I was going to drown.  The panic and fear I felt was so deep that it robbed me of any hope of escaping the clutches of the shadow that had enveloped me.  The shadow passed as quickly as it had come and I dove for the surface, my lungs ready to burst from my panic.  Later, when I was sitting on a pier well away from the edge of the water and watching the sun's fire being doused by the ocean waters, I felt very small.  I think it was the point in my childhood that I realized how big the world really was.  I think it was the exact moment that I realized that I, one day may die.  