*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: paul
Plan modified: Thu Jan 14 14:05:06 1999

1/14/99

Soon there will be more information to the public on the new title I have been working on.  Still all I can say is that the game is awesome, and its as much fun to make as it
is to play.

Recently we had a mocap session with an actor creating all the moves for our main character, Simon is busy cleaning up the data.  We are matching actors that resemble the characters in the game.

I would like to welcome aboard the master Eric Kohler to the team, his expertise will put this product on the top 10 list this fall.

Aaron St. John is busy brewing his magic, Geoff Kaimer is busy whipping up awesome textures, Seiko as usual is breaking the production curve, Izzy has finished the interface and on to create the real magic thanks to Tobe's programming genius mind, Lambert has implemented an excellent interface and has moved on to other programming arena's, and of course LaCasse is kickin butt as
usual, and Derek is doing a fantastic job.

Soon there will be more info on the game and everyone will see what all the excitement is about.


12/10/98

This latest project is really coming along nice, this game is going to have so much action
it will be non stop from beginning to end.  Soon there will be a press release on the name of the project and a look at what to expect.  The team is working very hard to ensure detail on building this world and personally I have never seen a game like this before.

Anyway last night was the Monolith Xmas party aboard a boat and we rocked the boat around lake Union and Lake Washington, it was a nice evening and the weather cooperated.  Good time had by all I'm sure!

I will be very busy during the next few weeks soooooooooo......

Happy Holidays Everybody!!!!!



11/18/98

Well this latest project that I’m leading is so exciting, this is going to be such a unique new type of game
I wish I could say more.  Nathan Hendrickson just completed the script for the Intro and Ending cut scene
so I have been working on completing the storyboards with a little help from Ed Carreon.  I never realized how good of an illustrator Ed was, come to find out he has been receiving advice on the craft from the master Eric Kohler.
Things have been so busy I’m looking forward to T-Day so I can play Gruntz, Rage of Mages, and 
SHOGO.  I have played SHOGO a lot but just can’t seem to get enough, the multi player action is very
Intense.

Its nice having Ernie back after his trip down to Mexico way and beyond, welcome back “BRACO”!!



11/02/98

  These day's other than management duties I have been working on a project with Aaron St.John, although the project is really cool and well underway I'm not at liberty to discuss it at this time.  Its too bad I really want to write about it but I will have to wait.  On the art side we have Seiko Kobayashi, Geoff Kaimer, Simon Wong and Izzy Evans there is also Dan Davis, Mi-Kung, Steve Allen, J. Bartlett, Chris Logan, J. Faulkenhagen, Cole Drumb, and Andrew Kim.  We have a great team that's well into production mode working on this project and everything is looking hot.


7/11/98

Well we have the weekend crew working on Gruntz. Today Rick is putting finishing touches on the intro movie he needs to finish up so that he can attend Siggraph with a clear conscious.  Then Oscar is busy working on an electrical outlet and some kitchen slime.  Akika is overloaded having to animate 30+ objects that include  Pogo sticks, go-carts, jump ropes and shovels just to name a few.  And then there is the new recruit Dan Davis and he is putting together powerful power-ups and also finishing up a tree fort that reminds me of the Honeycomb Hideout.  Myself I have been working on cockroaches, cigarette butts and a few breakfast items.  Sunday should be more of the same.



6/18/98

These dayz I have been keeping buzy with Gruntz.  Lets see its iconz 12x12 32x32 static, rotating, and highlighted.  There are power up designz and cut scenez and in game Grunt animationz.  And we have the space ship fort and eye candiez, and explosions, mobile hazardz and static hazardz.
Also slot machines, tirez, tombstonez, horse pillz, coconutz, gumballz, kitchen sinkz, stovez, steam rollerz.  Anyway that is just todayz taskz. There sure are allot of elementz in creating a world for these Gruntz.
Carlson and Winter have been doing a great job animating the Gruntz and bringing them to life, it is so funny watching the Gruntz, I cannot imagine anyone not laughing out loud while they watch these guyz (the Gruntz that is).



4/28/98

My latest efforts have been on the game "Gruntz" I just finished up the storyboards for the ending cutscene, I can't tell you how it ends you will just have to play the game to find out.  The game is looking real good this product will appeal to most age groups.  Our biggest problem to date has been trying to locate a few Gruntz so that we could have a couple of motion capture sessions, I'm sure once the product is completed we will have Gruntz coming out of the wood work.  That's the problem with these Gruntz they appear to be a little on the slow side but they mean well.  I want to send out a thank you to Jason Zeringue for helping out on this product especially during the design phase so "Thanks Jason and best wishes to you on your future project." he really is one talented individual.  All the artist on Gruntz have been doing great work but you guys and gals are still working on the project so I will save my compliments for after completion.  Speaking of completion I have some splash screens to finish up, I will try to keep my plan file updated a little more than every six months, so check back soon.