*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: spencer
Plan modified: Tue Jan 26 10:34:54 1999

1/26/99

Wow long time no type.

Anyways, just wanted to say that this game I am working on is going to rock!

The levels are slick. Goodbye to fantasy and gothic, hello real world. When you see the levels in this game you are gonna totally like them. There is a lot of attention to detail (note that my spelling does not reflect the design of maps or other level_design ers abilities. hehe)

Also wanted to say I have been working like mad. The change from Quake2 to LithTech was quite odd but I think I have got the general bit of it down as far as making geometry and how the lighting works. 

I still dont know all the good stuff but I learn more and more every day and I hope to share the knowledge I recieve with you guys once I get a chance.

Any ways, I think that is all I got to say for today.

Hope to be back soon,

Until next time, CYA!

-Wolfen



12/31/98

HAPPY NEW YEARS TO YOU ALL. I hope you all have/had (depends on when you read this hehe) a good new years.

Im working on a little side project for all them level editors of the lith tech engine. I think it will be a good thing for you guys once it gets going.

The current project Im on here is rolling along good. Player model is coming to play woohoo hehe. Levels are looking killer. I mean come one, we got people from Shogo on the team so of course levels will kick bootie. They have a lot more time then they did with Shogo so it should be cool.

Take it easy all, and untill next year. CYA!

-Wolfen12/29/98

Hey guys!

Two things,

First. I wanted to say good job to the guys at Planet Shogo for there nice downloadable Shogo editing docs. Kick ass guys. (thats www.planetshogo.com to those who dont know)

Second. I am not sure if anyone knows how to do this but I have not seen it yet anywhere, and that is how to make a see though or transparent brush or catwalk if you will.

First you need to make the brush that you want to be the transparent brush/catwalk/grill (get the idea? hehe)

Then you need to keep that brush selected. Then right click in one of the views and select "bind to object".

From there just select door. Nothing else just door. Then click ok or close or whatever that button is.

Next, you want to texture the brush with a special texture thats all black and meant to be transparant. I cant remember which one for shogo was all black or meant to be all trans but i think its in the root texture list.

Then you need to find the grate textures that you can use. Dont remember that one either, i know its there though (sorry working with a new tex set heh) and you place this grate texture as the face of the brush he will be walking on, usually the top one =P

I think the important thing to know for now is, that you need to bind a brush to the door entity (object) and give its property the transulecent tag and solid tag to make this. The textures are there some where, but I have not noticed anyone mention how to do it yet so I thought I would say something.

Let me know if you all know of a site that has this. Then maybe I wont speak out next time and look like a moron =P

Untill next time. CYA!

-Wolfen


12/26/98

Well hello there people. Not much news since it was the holidays and the office was pretty much empty. Considering most of the projects are in early stages I guess people figured they would take there time off for now. The Shogo team especially since they are the ones who worked there rear ends off.

I hope everyone had some good holidays. I stayed with some freinds and there place and had a big dinner and all since I have no family out here =(

I had to give up my qeradiant site this week becuase I have no more time for it =(

That was my baby. If your a QERadiant fan then defintly keep up with Ravages of Radiant (www.planetquake.com/ravage) becuase the guy None1a that took over was probably the best candidate for it.

I plan on opening another website sometime soon. Maybe I will start one on DEdit and see if I can get permission to make it like some kind of Official Editing site for it hehe. Then I could be the perfect news hound for you all but this time with a different cool editor.

Its just hard to keep up with an editor that isnt even related to a project you work on for a living. hehe.

Anyways, take it easy all. And congrats to the BareBones CTF guys. Its a good start. I like it. I can not wait to see it get finished =)

Until next time. CYA!

-Wolfen

12/20/98

Hey poeple. Wow what a week. Been busy mapping and trying to get my old site up and running fully. 

Some new versions of the editor that are internal versions are looking like a lot of bugs and features are being worked out and its looking a lot better everyday. This I can deal with =)

I have no idea when the press release for the project I am on is going to be. We still have some things to take care of it sounds like. I am not to used to ins and outs of how a game company does things (im sure some are different to) but there is one thing that has to be done for sure before the press release I do know this.

Anyways I gotta finish my map, as I am like 2 days behind on it and its all becuase I had a bad week last week. So I will be mapping all the rest of today and next week ehehe. Like I am really supposed to be doing anything else eh? hehehe

Anyways. Untill next time. CYA!

-Wolfen12/17/98

Well hello there.

Tip of the day. Dont move to Seattle WA unless you plan on paying way to much for your plates on your car. I paid $409 just for my 95 Saturn Twin Cam. Then they had the nerve to charge me state tax's as well. Man am I broke now.

Anyways, I just filled out some answers to some questions for some book coming out about making games. I dont know if they will put my stuff in or not but that would be cool. 

I hear a CTF came out for Shogo. Rock on. I gotta go play that. Looks like me and mike and darren dont gotta make one now =P

Anything else we should all make? I was thinking maybe a Rocket Arena for Shogo. That would definatly be interesting. Of course it would now have to be called TOW Arena hahah.

Anyways, I got some maps to make. So until next time. CYA!

-Jason (WolfeN) Spencer


12/13/98

Welp, you mod authors out there better hurry up with the shogo mods, cuase me, Mike Dusault and, Darren here have been considering doing a whole slew of them ourselves just for the heck of it and to finally have them hehehe.

On a more personal note. I can not stand doing html. I really need some one to take over my old site at planetquake.com/ravage.

I got this whole new design and of course, I am having trouble with it cuase its just not my bag baby. Im just a mapper what do you expect?

Oh, if you aint played Get Medieval, you gotta at least get it for its cutscenes, especially the intro haha, that thing is hillarious. 

Other then that not much more for me to talk about tonight, maybe Ill have something more interesting on a regular work day like tomorrow.

Untill next time. CYA

-Wolfen



12/12/98

Heya folks. Im working on a Saturday night. I must be crazy haha.

Hint of the day. USE THE NODES GROUPING IN DEdit!.
Man thank goodness for the invention of grouping eh? I really like the way they work in DEdit.

What a switch from QERadiant to DEdit. DEdit is cool and has some cool stuff to play with in it. So now I support the two unless Robert Duffy makes me a SHOGHO Plugin for QERadiant hehe (hint hint).

Whats with there being very few Shogo servers? Come on now. The game is good enough to play over the net. I finally got down to it the other night and was having a blast. 

You all out there need to set more of them up.

Does anyone think I should throw a webcam into my office? My thoughts are, its to overused allready, and I dont think Im cool enough to where anyone would really care heh. Email me your thoughts on all this people. Id like to hear from you.

Thanks, and untill next time. Cya!

-Jason (WolfeN) Spencer



Yo people. Its me Jason (WolfeN) Spencer. Look at my pretty .plan file. Woo this place is sooo cool. Some of the projects in works are gonna rock.

I am just sitting around making maps and the likes. Wait untill you all see what project I am working on. Its gonna be cool. 

Thanks to all the guys here at Monolith again, you all have been very helpfull and have great attitudes and plenty of personality to SHOW THE LOVE BABY!!

Untill next time people.
Cya
-Jason (WolfeN) Spencer