Login: brianm         			Name: Brian Martel
Plan:
These days I'm working on the textures for many of the alien characters. 
I recently finished up the textures for Voltigore and the Shock Trooper. 
We are really happy with the way these characters have turned out. 
They are fun to play against and there is still tweaking to be done so 
they should be a blast to play against. I'm moving on to the sub-boss next. 
We're calling him the Pit Worm. I think people will be in for a treat in 
this section of the game. 

The art staff at Gearbox is in one office and we are a pretty close-nit 
team. When we create characters and things for the game it is a truly 
collaborative effort. Through the design phase and through the production 
of models we are always talking and discussing how to improve and make what 
we are working on as good as we can. Stephen and Landon do most of the 
modeling and the animating and I try and put polish on all the model 
textures and world textures in the game. It's a good system and seems to 
work well for us, a sort of artistic assembly line. 

So recently we carried this over to game time. We have been playing 
The Hidden And Dangerous. As a single play game it is quite fun. But 
it really shines as a Cooperative game. We are all in the same office 
so it is perfect for communication since it is a squad based game. It's 
a little like X-Com meets WW2 but in real-time first person or third 
person mode. It gets very intense and we have virtual war stories to 
tell. It's a blast. I could almost say I have not had a better time 
playing any other multiplayer game. It is so refreshing to play a true 
cooperative game. 

You can get the demo but it does have a slight learning curve so give 
it a little time and you'll love it. Make sure you set up the controls 
the way you like and are comfortable with and I guarantee you will have 
a better time. Also there is a crosshair for third person mode that is 
really helpful. 

The engine is good enough for this type game, similar to Rainbow Six 
but better, and the AI is a little flawed. But if you overlook these 
things it is quite an accomplishment. 

The funny thing is everyone around here that has seen the game says, 
"Oh my God! This is Prax War!" It's really cool to see somebody pull 
off some of the feeling and concepts that we were trying for in Prax War. 
It is a great game and I hope it gets the respect it deserves.