Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: nels.bruckner     Plan Last Modified: 07/31/1999 05:46:43 PST

Real Name: Nels Bruckner
Nickname: Nailz
Job: Manager
Project: Tribes 2, Tribes Extreme, etc.
E-Mail: nels.bruckner@dynamix.com

[7/30]
     Tribes 1.7 patch should be up as of this
afternoon.  Other than a few bug fixes, the main
issue that was addressed was the texture bug that we
inadvertantly introduced in 1.6.  Man, that's
embarassing. :)

     Anyway, I would encourage everyone to get 1.7,
especially server ops (since several server-side
bugs did get addressed) and people who were affected
by the 1.6 texture bug.

     On the Tribes Extreme front things are
progressing nicely.  We have a lot of new missions
that are getting fleshed out and they look totally
cool!  It is really neat to see some new visual
twists on the Tribes stuff.  I think these new
missions will really excite the veteran Tribes
players who are getting tired of the original
missions.


[7/12]
     I believe our open call for user-submitted
missions is going out today.  I can't wait to see
what people come up with!  This should be an
excellent forum for Tribes editing community to
show their stuff.  We should also be posting our
WorldCraft converter today as well as the player
model tools. All you Tribes editors should keep your
eyes on the Tribes site!

     [Subliminal message - Nailz is a project
manager, Nailz is not a programmer, Nailz is a
project manager, Nailz is not a programmer...]

[7/9]
     I know many of you are anxiously awaiting our
OpenGL friendly patch (Tribes 1.6).  Here is a quick
update - We've been working closely with nVidia to
make the next version of Tribes run well on TNTs and
TNT2s.  So far this is going really well (with
appropriate kudos going out to nVidia for their
support and to our own graphics layer guru, Dave
Moore) and we are getting very promising results.
nVidia's new drivers (I believe they are up to
version 2.08) seem to be a big step forward and the
code that we have been modifying over the last few
weeks gives complimentary performance increases. The
end result will hopefully be that no one with a
TNT-based accelerator will have to run Tribes in
software mode (yeah!).  In fact, initial reports from
our QA department indicate that the TNT performance
is now very comparable to the Glide performance in
earlier versions.  Performance on other
manufacturer's cards is a mixed lot, depending quite
heavily on the state of their drivers (tell me when
this starts to sound familiar).  One notable standout
is the S3 Savage4, which is also performing very well
with the latest drivers.



--Nailz


[Now Playing:]
Death Angel - Act III

[Top 5 Bands:]
Black Sabbath (forever, man)
Corrosion of Conformity (Deliverance,Wiseblood,Blind)
Mercyful Fate
Overkill (a consistantly awesome band)
Metallica

[Car Lust:]
McLaren F1 (duh)
Ferrari F355 F1
Lamborghini Diablo (any flavor, with the new
headlights!)
...maybe a Hummer or something 4WD... for
the snow.