Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: nels.bruckner     Plan Last Modified: 08/09/1999 14:53:07 PST

Real Name: Nels Bruckner
Nickname: Nailz
Job: Manager
Project: Tribes 2, Tribes Extreme, etc.
E-Mail: nels.bruckner@dynamix.com

[8/9]
     Wow... it looks like we finally got it right
with 1.8!  Third time's a charm, eh? :)  Seriously,
it looks like 1.8 is (finally) what we were shooting
for with 1.6, plus a few small bug fixes.  As usual,
it is highly recommended that server ops get the new
version.

     Later this week we will be releasing a couple
new game types for Tribes.  Both these game types
were developed by Dynamix employees, on "spare time".
They are the popular "Hunter" by Tinman and "Rabbit"
by Eric Lanz. There may also be a third type, but it
isn't quite done and we may hold it for later (it's a
game called "Freeze" that Mitch Shaw has been working
on). The reaction around the office to these new game
types has been really fantastic (I've never heard as
much loud cursing as when the Tribes team plays
Hunter). I think they will be very popular with the
Tribes community at large.


[7/30]
     Tribes 1.7 patch should be up as of this
afternoon.  Other than a few bug fixes, the main
issue that was addressed was the texture bug that we
inadvertantly introduced in 1.6.  Man, that's
embarassing. :)

     Anyway, I would encourage everyone to get 1.7,
especially server ops (since several server-side
bugs did get addressed) and people who were affected
by the 1.6 texture bug.

     On the Tribes Extreme front things are
progressing nicely.  We have a lot of new missions
that are getting fleshed out and they look totally
cool!  It is really neat to see some new visual
twists on the Tribes stuff.  I think these new
missions will really excite the veteran Tribes
players who are getting tired of the original
missions.


[7/12]
     I believe our open call for user-submitted
missions is going out today.  I can't wait to see
what people come up with!  This should be an
excellent forum for Tribes editing community to
show their stuff.  We should also be posting our
WorldCraft converter today as well as the player
model tools. All you Tribes editors should keep your
eyes on the Tribes site!

     [Subliminal message - Nailz is a project
manager, Nailz is not a programmer, Nailz is a
project manager, Nailz is not a programmer...]



--Nailz


[Now Playing:]
Death Angel - Act III

[Top 5 Bands:]
Black Sabbath (forever, man)
Corrosion of Conformity (Deliverance,Wiseblood,Blind)
Mercyful Fate
Overkill (a consistantly awesome band)
Metallica

[Car Lust:]
McLaren F1 (duh)
Ferrari F355 F1
Lamborghini Diablo (any flavor, with the new
headlights!)
...maybe a Hummer or something 4WD... for
the snow.