Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: nels.bruckner     Plan Last Modified: 08/25/1999 13:34:50 PST

Real Name: Nels Bruckner
Nickname: Nailz
Job: Manager
Project: Tribes 2, Tribes Extreme, etc.
E-Mail: nels.bruckner@dynamix.com


[8/25]
   Busy times a the ol' Dynamix these days.  Had a
couple things I wanted to update people on... so here
goes. :)

   I think it is very worth while to say a couple of
words of thanks to the various hardware vendors that
have gone the extra mile to forge a relationship with
game developers.  This kind of synergy can really
make life easier for the hardware guys, the software
guys, and (to no small degree) makes for a better end
product and a better experiece for the gaming public.
Here at Dynamix we have had great meetings lately
with Intel and ATI.  Very shortly we will have
similar visits from 3Dfx and AMD.  The extra effort
that these guys are putting forward is to be broadly
commended.

   On the development side, Tribes Extreme continues
to steam ahead at a rapid pace.  It is so cool to
have people on my team come into my office and say
excitedly "it's starting to look really cool!".  And
they are right!  TE is shaping up to be a very
satisfying product.


[8/10]
	The Cornman goeth!  Sad tidings, as one of the
most unique characters on the Tribes team is leaving.
Cornboy! will be missed.


[8/9]
     Wow... it looks like we finally got it right
with 1.8!  Third time's a charm, eh? :)  Seriously,
it looks like 1.8 is (finally) what we were shooting
for with 1.6, plus a few small bug fixes.  As usual,
it is highly recommended that server ops get the new
version.

     Later this week we will be releasing a couple
new game types for Tribes.  Both these game types
were developed by Dynamix employees, on "spare time".
They are the popular "Hunter" by Tinman and "Rabbit"
by Eric Lanz. There may also be a third type, but it
isn't quite done and we may hold it for later (it's a
game called "Freeze" that Mitch Shaw has been working
on). The reaction around the office to these new game
types has been really fantastic (I've never heard as
much loud cursing as when the Tribes team plays
Hunter). I think they will be very popular with the
Tribes community at large.


--Nailz


[Now Playing:]
Gravity Kills - Guilty

[Top 5 Bands:]
Black Sabbath (forever, man)
Corrosion of Conformity (Deliverance,Wiseblood,Blind)
Mercyful Fate
Overkill (a consistantly awesome band)
Metallica

[Car Lust:]
McLaren F1 (duh)
Ferrari F355 F1
Lamborghini Diablo (any flavor, with the new
headlights!)
...maybe a Hummer or something 4WD... for
the snow.