Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: nels.bruckner     Plan Last Modified: 09/21/1999 16:18:32 PST

Real Name: Nels Bruckner
Nickname: Nailz
Job: Manager
Project: Tribes 2, Tribes Extreme, etc.
E-Mail: nels.bruckner@dynamix.com


[9/21]
   As many of you have read in the news there are
big organizational changes going on at Sierra and
therefore here at Dynamix as well.  I've been through
a lot of these and they are always difficult, even if
the reasoning behind it all makes good business
sense. It's the kind of thing you just have to figure
out how to work through and move on from, for
everyone involved.

   On a much happier note, our Tribes demo has
(finally) seen the light of day.  I believe it went
live on Thursday and the response so far has been
tremendous.  Every demo server that we put up get's
instantly swamped and there seems to be a pretty
consistent 200-300 people on line all the time.  It
is very cool to see.

   Server opperators can expect a new version of
Tribes sometime next week.  The patch addresses two
server-side crash bugs that have come to light.  The
patch shouldn't effect anything on the client side.


[9/3]
   In a followup to my last post (esp. the part about
certain hardware guys going the extra mile, etc.) I'd
like to add that nVidia is also coming up to show us
thier stuff.  Based on all the reports so far I
expect to be blown away by their niffty new hardware.
Can't wait!

   Happy Labor Day Weekend!  I will be vacationing in
beautiful Norath over the weekend, mostly in the
northern part of the Cazic Thule server. If you see a
character named Soramen, say "Hi... NICE LANGSEAX OF
THE WOLVES!" :)


[8/25]
   Busy times at the ol' Dynamix these days.  Had a
couple things I wanted to update people on... so here
goes. :)

   I think it is very worth while to say a couple of
words of thanks to the various hardware vendors that
have gone the extra mile to forge a relationship with
game developers.  This kind of synergy can really
make life easier for the hardware guys, the software
guys, and (to no small degree) makes for a better end
product and a better experience for the gaming
public. Here at Dynamix we have had great meetings
lately with Intel and ATI.  Very shortly we will have
similar visits from 3Dfx and AMD.  The extra effort
that these guys are putting forward is to be broadly
commended.

   On the development side, Tribes Extreme continues
to steam ahead at a rapid pace.  It is so cool to
have people on my team come into my office and say
excitedly "it's starting to look really cool!".  And
they are right!  TE is shaping up to be a very
satisfying product.


--Nailz


[Now Playing:]
Gravity Kills - Guilty

[Top 5 Bands:]
Black Sabbath (forever, man)
Corrosion of Conformity (Deliverance,Wiseblood,Blind)
Mercyful Fate
Overkill (a consistantly awesome band)
Metallica

[Car Lust:]
McLaren F1 (duh)
Ferrari F355 F1
Lamborghini Diablo (any flavor, with the new
headlights!)
...maybe a Hummer or something 4WD... for
the snow.
