Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: nels.bruckner     Plan Last Modified: 12/03/1999 10:16:16 PST

Real Name: Nels Bruckner
Nickname: Nailz
Job: Director
Project: Tribes product line
E-Mail: nels.bruckner@dynamix.com

[12/1]
   


[11/4]
   I just read a write-up in a major computer gaming
magazine about how Dynamix doesn't exist anymore.
They literally said that "most" of Dynamix's
employees had been let go.  Hopefully "most" of you
out in the community know that this isn't accurate.
Dynamix is still here, Tribes is still going strong
(in fact, the Tribes team is BIGGER than it was a few
months ago), and life is continuing.

	Some quick product updates -
	
	Tribes 2 is really taking shape.  The new engine
is on track to be fully functional before the end of
the year.  As it comes on-line and we drop in the
awesome art that our guys are doing you should start
seeing new screen shots, etc.  I think everyone will
agree that it is a big step forward.  The people who
have come through the office and caught glimpses of
it have been very impressed.

	Tribes Extreme has a few more hurdles to jump
before everything is connected up and running.  The
content that is in right now is awesome.  Current
Tribes players should get a kick out of the new
levels and art.  New Tribes players will find it much
easier to get into, and will even have fun just
playing off-line (the deathmatch AI is really cool).
TE is set to be a great boost to the already awesome
Tribes community.


[10/7]
   A quick update - the Tribes 1.9 patch that I
mentioned a while back (which primarily addresses a
server-side crash) took a little bit longer to put
together than I had originally anticipated. It is in
product certification now and should be available
very soon.  My apologies for the delay.


--Nailz


[Now Playing:]
Static X - Push It

[Top 5 Bands:]
Black Sabbath (forever, man)
Corrosion of Conformity (Deliverance,Wiseblood,Blind)
Mercyful Fate
Overkill (a consistantly awesome band)
Metallica

[Car Lust:]
McLaren F1 (duh)
Ferrari 360 Modena
Lamborghini Diablo (any flavor, with the new
headlights!)
...maybe a Hummer or something 4WD... for
the snow.
