Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: nels.bruckner     Plan Last Modified: 01/24/2000 10:36:31 PST

Real Name: Nels Bruckner
Nickname: Nailz
Job: Director
Project: Tribes product line
E-Mail: nels.bruckner@dynamix.com

[12/22]
   It looks like our final set of balanced missions
went out on Monday or Tuesday without much trouble.
Sorry I didn't get an update put together about that
-- it's been a very busy week for me. :)

   It looks like there WILL be (at least) one more
patch of Tribes 1.  There was a pretty esoteric
server crash bug that got addressed along with a
meriad of small cheats (and one not so small one)
that have been plugged.  Look for that early in the
New Year (once your power comes back on, etc.).

   Merry Xmas everyone!

[12/3]
   OK, trying to get the Tribes Extreme stuff
completely wrapped.  Getting everyone transitioned
over to T2, etc.  That process is looking really
good -- T2 is going to be that much better for
getting everyone focused on it now.

   Scott Rudi and Dave Meddish are working on
packaging up a bunch of Tribes 1 missions and
other art that we will be putting out next week.
Meddish has put together a series of 10 balanced
'competition' missions that should be great for the
various gaming ladders. These are all new, made by
Dave in the last week and half or so (he's been
busy). Scott is putting the wraps on all the
user-submitted stuff that was aimed at TE. There is a
bunch of stuff there to sift through but I think the
community will have a lot of fun with it.


[11/4]
   I just read a write-up in a major computer gaming
magazine about how Dynamix doesn't exist anymore.
They literally said that "most" of Dynamix's
employees had been let go.  Hopefully "most" of you
out in the community know that this isn't accurate.
Dynamix is still here, Tribes is still going strong
(in fact, the Tribes team is BIGGER than it was a few
months ago), and life is continuing.

	Some quick product updates -
	
	Tribes 2 is really taking shape.  The new engine
is on track to be fully functional before the end of
the year.  As it comes on-line and we drop in the
awesome art that our guys are doing you should start
seeing new screen shots, etc.  I think everyone will
agree that it is a big step forward.  The people who
have come through the office and caught glimpses of
it have been very impressed.

	Tribes Extreme has a few more hurdles to jump
before everything is connected up and running.  The
content that is in right now is awesome.  Current
Tribes players should get a kick out of the new
levels and art.  New Tribes players will find it much
easier to get into, and will even have fun just
playing off-line (the deathmatch AI is really cool).
TE is set to be a great boost to the already awesome
Tribes community.


--Nailz


[Now Playing:]
Death Angel - Seemingly Endless Time

[Top 5 Bands:]
Black Sabbath (forever, man)
Corrosion of Conformity (Deliverance,Wiseblood,Blind)
Mercyful Fate
Overkill (a consistantly awesome band)
Metallica

[Car Lust:]
McLaren F1 (duh)
Ferrari 512M
Ferrari 360 Modena
Lamborghini Diablo (any flavor, with the new
headlights!)
...maybe a Hummer or something 4WD... for the snow.