Account Name:  Chris Hargrove
Email address: chrish@3drealms.com
----------
Name: Chris "Kiwidog" Hargrove
Position: Code Boy
Project: Duke Nukem Forever
Email: chrish@3drealms.com

1/29/97
-------
Rant warning.  If you don't want to see me bitch, stop reading now.

I've been following an exchange between Randy Pitchford (RBR) and Scott Miller, one of my bosses, and until I read Randy's .plan from yesterday, it seemed like a semi-private argument between the two of them, no big deal.  Until yesterday.  To Randy: You may think you're just insulting the company and Scott, but in fact you're insulting the intelligence of every developer who actually _likes_ working here.  Even if the royalties weren't the ideal percentage as you claim, I'll take 2% of a million copies over 10% of ten thousand copies any day of the week.  The ten thousand figure is arbitrary, not intended to belittle RBR, the point is simply that 3DRealms has name recognition, and it generates sales.

How many companies have games whose main character has had not only action figures, but porcelain statues made out of him?  I certainly can't name too many.  The fact is, even if I got "screwed" on my royalties (which I doubt I will since I seem to like and trust this place more than you), getting screwed with Duke Nukem is still better than winning the lottery with other games.  The sales capacity is enormous.

As for your "golden handcuffs" example, that's not valid for people who aren't in a rush to get out of the company.  Personally, I like it here.  And if it takes a full year after Duke is launched for all my royalties to get to me, then so be it; I don't plan on going anywhere.

Finally, regarding your comment that your game will "blow us away" when you ship, I hope that "blow away" was in reference to us just being impressed or amazed or whatnot, and not a "blow away" in comparison to something we're making here.  If it's the former, then you may be right, and I wish your company all the luck in getting that "wow" result, not just from us but from everyone.  On the other hand, if it's the latter.... then you've got another thing coming.

For the rest of your argument, I'll let you argue with Scott; it's business between the two of you, not me.  I've said my peace.  Just keep in mind that at some point when you attack our company, you start attacking us personally.  

I'll never understand why so many people insist on burning bridges every time they leave one place to go to another.  You never know when you may need to cross that bridge again.

I spend over 90% of my waking hours at this office, of my own free will, because I love what I do.  Don't think for a second that you can trample on it and not have us take notice.




1/23/97
-------
Woop, looks like Quakefinger got all our new fingers added... thanks guys, you rule.

Spent most of yesterday improving the new model support and setting up frames for the additional chunk information once I add it to Cannibal.  For the moment they more or less act like existing md2 models, but that will change next week once i drop the sequencing chunk in.  

Also made some improvements & bugfixes in Cannibal like a fullscreen model view mode and an animation playback toolbar, so Brian and Michael won't have to bring up the console window and change mdl_animspeed every time they want to animate (yes the thing has a console, it's just a bit different in behavior than Quake's, since Cannibal has separate windows that have window-specific bindings and functions, etc).

Next on the list is either the sequence chunk or better control of the p-frames, I haven't decided yet.

It looks like Nick got DukeEd (formerly qe4) running fairly well under win95 now, so it's no longer just an NT thing... the only caveat for now is that with perspective/mipmap mode on it appears to be slow as hell in software.  But with linear it's pretty darn speedy, provided the swimming won't nauseate you :)

Anyway, have a nice weekend people... I'm sure in a couple hours the whole office will be playing jailbreak again (that is one _fun_ q2 mod!)

Later mis amigos...


1/21/97
-------
Decided I'll do like I did back at Raven and leave 3 or 4 days of previous fingers in the file, just incase anyone missed something (yeah, like it really matters, but I'm entitled to a few delusions of grandeur now and then so humor me :)

As George mentioned, Nick got a bunch of cool stuff into QE4 (now happily being called DukeEd), so the editor's coming along smooth as silk.  As he also mentioned, I've been occupying my time working on getting 16-bit skins into the game.  It's not the 16-bitness that's the long tedious part (that by itself is rather simple), it's all the tools and tool changes that go with it that take up the time.  

I got a 3DFX-based skinning tool up and running a while ago (called Cannibal) to deal with 16-bit skinning that combines stuff normally separated into texpaint and qdata, but it dealt purely with skinning and base frame manipulation, not much else.  Lately I've been adding quite a bit more to it though, but I won't talk about that stuff till its done and George decides to let it out of the bag. :)  (BTW: Cannibal will most likely be released on the Duke Nukem Forever CD, possibly with the source code to it as well).  Maybe further down the line when we start doing screenshots and all that for the public, we could do a screenshot or two of this tool so you know what we're using.

Since we knew from the beginning there would be other things besides just 16-bit skins that we would change in the models, I pretty much threw out the MD2 format out as far as our code is concerned, replacing it with a newer format that holds more stuff (I won't say what stuff yet).  Since I didn't want to step on id's toes and call it MD3, I'm just calling it MDX (short for extended model).  

To all you editing-type-people out there making tools and such for MD2, MDX is a very different file format in its internal structure (it's more like a blend of a pack file and an IFF-style chunk system), but it still should be easy enough to deal with.  Once the format is final, which won't be till near the end of the project, I'll make sure specs and some sample code are available.

After this is all wrapped up, Nick and I will be finishing off the new entity system so the others can start taking advantage of it.  Trust me, when you see this in action, you will freak.

Back to work...


- Chris
	
    