Account Name:  Chris Hargrove
Email address: chrish@3drealms.com
----------
Name: Chris "Kiwidog" Hargrove
Position: Code Boy
Project: Duke Nukem Forever
Email: chrish@3drealms.com

4/16/98
-------
Oh wow, it's been like a month since I updated this thing.  Wow does time fly when you're having fun... although it also flies when you're in crunch time, which I think is more applicable in this case.

Been slamming away at stuff for E3.  My whole experience with Cannibal has been interesting, to say the least.  Between the time of my last update and now it's probably gone through some super-major changes, but it's over now. At least, almost over... I still have a couple more bits to drop in, but the guys already have the newest version as it stands and are starting to use it toward some production models.  I asked George about putting up a couple screenshots, but I agreed when he said we should wait until we have a couple really kickass models using it polished so that when we put up shots they'll be more of just the tool itself; you'll get to see it in action ("bang for your buck" kinda thing).  It's too bad the thing took a couple weeks longer than I wanted, but that's the way things are I guess.  I think Fox needs to make a new special "When Code Attacks". :)

I'm now back into engine-side stuff to finalize support for these models so we can be done with the character system and I can move on to bigger and better things.  Nick's been busy with some DukeEd DukeEd changes and fixups, as well as the game-logic side entity work.  My hope is that when all this is said and done, we'll have the framework out of the way and can start in on actual game logic content.  It's amazing what frustrations tearing apart an engine can cause, but that's the price of progress I guess.

I'll echo a sentiment given recently by several people at several different companies... these games take a LONG TIME.  They are a hell of a lot of work, and much of a development team effectively sacrifices their lives during the time of working on a high-quality game, all for the enjoyment of you, the consumer.  No decent game that wants a shelf life of more than a week gets done in less than a year these days.  It just doesn't happen.  I sometimes hear "but it's different for you, the engine's already done" (and I'm sure Ritual, Ion and others hear a lot of this as well).  Guess what guys... that doesn't make any difference.  The time we save not writing the engine is nearly matched up by the time it takes to learn and modify a framework that wasn't written with you in mind.  Quake and Quake 2 were written to be Quake and Quake 2, they weren't written to be Duke or Sin or Daikatana or any of these... turning it into something it wasn't planned for is a major undertaking, so the unrealistic expectation that we should get these games done in a year or less just because we're licensing an engine is just that... unrealistic.

On another note, in my last update I mentioned I would have some materials available from my IGDN session a month ago.  I apologize for the delay on those, as I said I've been in a bit of a crunch mode recently.  Don't worry, I haven't forgotten about you... I'll cut out that code and send it up to the IGDN guys as soon as I get the chance, which will probably be Sunday sometime.

All for now,



3/16/98
-------
Oh man, what a tiring weekend.  The IGDN conference went well; I had a lot of fun.  The only downside for me was
how utterly tired I was during the whole thing.  I drove down to Austin late Friday night (or Saturday morning
technically) planning on getting a cheap hotel room for a few hours of sleep... completely forgetting that this
is Spring Break for many colleges.  So I got to Austin and couldn't find a hotel.  Drove back up the road 15 miles
or so... still nothing available.  Another 30 miles... still nothing.  Eventually I was so pissed and would've
gotten no more than 2 hours of sleep, that I stopped at a truck stop in Jarrell just so I could take a shower.

By the time my session started at 3:30 PM, I was so tired I could barely stand, let alone think and talk
rationally.  So I apologize to those who attended if I seemed a bit... disoriented.  Thankfully a couple
knowledgeable guys in the audience were there to correct a few of my blundering mistakes.  Even though I didn't
get as far in the lecture as I was hoping, I still hope people got at least a little decent information out of it.
Sometime this week or so I'll be giving some written materials and source code to the IGDN guys to put on their
website, for those topics I couldn't cover (or didn't cover very well) as well as for those who couldn't attend.
Maybe they'll make a bit more sense than I could at the time. :)

The three main things I learned from this experience:
1) Small conferences of 200 to 300 people are extremely cool
2) 3D Graphics is a hard thing to explain in an hour
3) Never assume you'll get a hotel room in Austin without reservations


3/10/98
-------
Doh! I checked my calender and realized the IGDN thing was not this Friday, but this Saturday (well, the opening
party thing is on Friday night, but the main conference is on Saturday) so I was one day off in my last update.
Sorry if I confused anybody.


3/7/98
------
Oh yes, I almost forgot to mention...

I'll be speaking at the IGDN conference in Austin, TX this Friday.  I don't know how big the conference will end
up being, but it looks like a lot of fun.  I'm doing my session as a programming lecture/workshop type thing aimed
at programmers with little experience in writing 3d graphics code but who are interested in getting into the field.  Since I only have an hour to talk, it'll move pretty fast.  But if you're a beginner when it comes to 3D and will be at the conference, feel free to drop by if you're interested.  I'm going to start off with the basics like 3d projection and rotation, and go up through things like arbitrary cameras, 3d frustum clipping, and some simple VSD topics like BSP trees.  This will primarily be a discussion of 3d geometry issues, not language-specific or platform-specific stuff... just the fundamentals.  If this sounds up your alley, stop on by. :)


3/6/98
------
>>Cannibal rocks! Its a rocking rockful utility made for us rocking artistic gods here! We crush our enemies with
>>this rocking utility made by our rocking programmer Kiwi, who crushes and rocks! rocking!
>> - Brian "Whaleboy" Cozzens

Dude, thanks for the complements and all... but you might wanna lay off the crack for a while :)


3/4/97
------
Ah, the joys of fixing things.  The last 24 hours have been extremely productive, and if my brain holds out, the next few days look to be the same way.  Yesterday evening while continuing the rework of the guts of Cannibal, I had a "vision" (so to speak), and everything about where this tool should be going slammed into my brain within a matter of minutes.  I finally knew how this thing should turn out in the end (something which was rather hazy until this point), and everything became clear.  Implementing it was another matter altogether, but I racked my brain before going to bed on how to deal with a couple of these problems, and then more so this afternoon.  But early this evening it started to fit, and I've been rolling with it since.  Even at this stage, I can already tell the end result is going to be one of the coolest interfaces I've ever worked on.  In a couple weeks when we start thinking about screenshots, you'll know why I'm all excited about it again.  I was worried for a while that the extra time I'm taking on this wouldn't really measure up to the added gains... but that worry is long gone now. :)

The only frustrating part is not being able to show you guys how cool this thing is yet.  Time will resolve that problem though...

Back to the freak show, :)

- Chris