Account Name:  Chris Hargrove
Email address: chrish@3drealms.com
----------
Name: Chris "Kiwidog" Hargrove
Position: Code Boy
Project: Duke Nukem Forever
Email: chrish@3drealms.com

6/1/98
------
Back from E3... oh man what a tiring experience, but very very cool.  It's unfortunate I spent probably two thirds of the time with a hangover (the other third replenishing the alcohol supply supporting said hangover) but that's the nature of the beast :)  This was my first E3, so having this much positive feedback on 3DRealms' showing there made it even more special. :)

As for what I saw, I'd have to agree that no one single product blew me away in every aspect, although many games had some extremely cool individual elements.  The physics in Trespasser were phenomenally impressive, I can only hope that its gameplay ends up being equally cool.  The graphics in Heretic II were also extremely sweet.  Both Sin and Daikatana look quite fun to play even at this stage, and I'm looking forward to seeing what they do by shipping time.  I also spent a disproportionate amount of time fidgeting with Jazz 2, which for as simple a game as it is, looks surprisingly fun.  I could go on, but there's already enough review stuff out there at the ten gajillion web sites that covered the show, so... go read 'em :)

Also, thanks to all the people that emailed me with solution ideas for the drivers license problem I posted before E3.  Obviously by my extended hangover, the problem was solved... for those who care, here's what I ended up doing... I didn't want to go the fake ID route, because to me it seemed stupid to get a fake ID when I was in fact legally able to drink (that was the number one suggestion sent in).  Others suggested the passport route, the problem with that was that it would take too long to get one made, same thing with the generic photo ID method.  Fortunately, I already had a passport, from around five years ago when I went to Germany... I just didn't know where it was.  Luckily my wonderful mom happened to have saved it though, as one of the many things she held on to for safe keeping that "might come in handy someday"... even though the picture was a bit old, it still looked mostly like me, it had my date of birth, and it was legal identification.  All the qualifications I needed.  She couldn't send it to me fast enough though, as even overnight express mail or fedex would be too late... so she sent it directly to the hotel, where I picked it up when I walked in.  Problem was gone. :)

Anyway, I had a great time at the show... it may have been devastating on the legs (and the liver), but it was well worth it.  For those of you who've given us such a great response on our games' showings (especially Duke), I thank you... my enthusiasm is enhanced by your enthusiasm, and we look forward to delivering you some great gaming fun :)

P.S. And to those of you who wish to piss on our cornflakes, don't even try... I'm way too happy right now for you to bring me down. :)

P.P.S. Whoa, looks like every paragraph in this update ended with a smiley... :)


5/24/98
-------
To anyone else who lives in the state of Texas... I have a minor problem, a need a bit of information on how to deal with it.  Anyone who's moved to this state after turning 21 and needed to get a state driver's license probably knows what this problem is.  Basically, when I went to the DPS to get my Texas license, they took my old Virginia license away and replaced it with a "temporary" license on a little sheet of paper, until my new license shows up in the mail (supposedly in two weeks).  The problem with this is, clubs and bars don't seem to be too keen on accepting a "temporary" id, let alone one without my picture on it.  I'm not concerned about not drinking or anything here for a couple weeks; that's no big deal.  But next week I'll be going to E3 in Atlanta with the rest of the crew, and I do plan on drinking there.  If clubs in Texas won't even accept a temporary Texas license, the likelyhood of it being accepted in Georgia is even slimmer.

This is a problem I haven't dealt with before... in Virginia, when you go to get your license, they take your picture and make it on the spot; you just have to hang around for twenty minutes.  Here, it takes weeks, and I have to deal with the interim.

So I have no form of identication that has both my picture and my date of birth on it, and I need to get one before this Wednesday.  Anybody have any ideas?  The only option I know of is something like a passport, which theoretically could be made on the spot, but that's a very pricey option.  Are there any alternatives?

I'd really appreciate any help,


5/20/98
-------
Whew, talk about stress relief.  Had the past couple days off (mostly spent sleeping) to follow up on the crunching hell that has defined my life this past month.  E3, why do you torment us so? :)  Saturday through Monday morning was one of the longest continuous work shifts I've done in quite some time, around 39 hours or so with little to no break... I don't look forward to that kind of thing, but if it pays off in the end then it's worth it.  Hopefully people will be happy with what we've done thus far.  We've still got a ways to go of course, but some of the biggest hurdles in this project are now past us, so we're starting to stress less and less on tech. stuff and more and more on the gameplay elements.  I'm sure there'll be tech work right down to the wire, but it's diminishing now.

After E3 I'm going to make an effort to try and get a bit more sleep than I've been getting lately.  My temper gets a little uncontrollable when I'm cranky, and I don't want to take off any more heads than I already have.

Anyway, looking forward to seeing some of y'all at E3.  Don't forget to stop by and say hi if you run into me... or feel free to just yell at me a bit; I'm fine with that too. :)


5/14/98
-------
Anyone know when this Mexican Death Air cloud is gonna go away?  I mean, I may be a smoker and all, but this is just a little extreme.  No more crop burnings people, okay?  I do like breathing ya know. :)


5/1/98 (Part 2)
---------------
Alright, so I was a bit harsh.  I apologize to 3Dfx for my tone if it was too nasty... I will not, however, apologize for the content of my update itself.  The stuff still needs to get fixed.  Plain and simple.  I don't care how cool a company it may be or how fast their cards are or who might be working there now or who previously worked there (cough).  If the drivers keep me from doing my job, that's all that matters to me.

It's been mentioned that 3Dfx will give the world to developers that act appropriately.  I don't want the world though.  I just want to get my work done.  If you think for a second that I'm going to apologize for that, think again.

I love these cards.  If I didn't, I wouldn't be so adamant about them fixing their drivers; I'd have just moved to another card without a second thought.  3Dfx still has some of the best accelerators around in my eyes, and my opinion of the cards has not changed.  It's my opinion of the company, or rather whatever division of the company deals with these drivers, that has.

If you want to label me an asshole, fine.  But maybe an asshole saying something publicly will be all it takes to get things moving again.  There's no reason for a company with as high-quality a product line as this to screw things up over something as small as a driver.

- Chris