Account Name:  Chris Hargrove
Email address: chrish@finger.3drealms.com
----------
1/07/00
-------
Happy new year everyone!  I realized today that I haven't updated this thing
in ages, so I thought I would mention that yes, I am in fact still breathing.

Among my ten gajillion other new year's resolutions that I've made, I've
decided that this year I am going to try and be a kinder person.  People
who know me pretty well know that I tend to argue too much, and sometimes my
arguments become unnecessarily bitter even when the argument is irrelevant.
I suppose I just like to argue.  My good friends and my family have gotten
used to this aspect of my personality, but others haven't, and now that 2000
has arrived I think it's time I try and stop subjecting people to unnecessary
wrath.  Nothing in this world is worth being so bitter and angry about that
it causes you to alienate the people around you.  This aspect of me has often
made me a pain in the neck to industry colleagues, coworkers, personal friends,
and too many others to count, and it's done neither myself nor those people
any service.  So one of my resolutions is to try and keep myself better under
control, and to be kinder in general.  Being unnecessarily negative has been
bad for my health.

I don't doubt that I will probably end up saying some things over the next
year and beyond that annoy people or piss them off.  I don't always agree with
everybody on everything, and disagreements are part of life.  But regardless
of whatever I may say later on, I send everybody... friends, enemies, coworkers
and competitors... well wishes over the coming year.  May your days be happy
and productive, may your projects do well, and may your life be fulfilling.

Cheers,

1/14/00
-------
The Department of Justice determined today that the Four Horsemen have a
monopoly on the Apocalypse and should be broken up.  There has been no
official response from the Four Horsemen regarding the decision, but a
settlement is expected.  Analysts predict that the quartet will be broken up
into individual Horsemen in order to help facilitate competition in each of
their areas of destruction.  War would continue to handle the Horsemen's
lucrative defense subcontracts, Famine would maintain the quartet's
humanitarian efforts in developing third-world countries, Pestilence would
oversee pharmaceutical interests, and Death would remain a political lobby.
Industry leaders call the Department decision a breakthrough, and are looking
forward to prosperous times ahead.  More details forthcoming...
	
    