Account Name:  Chris Hargrove
Email address: chrish@finger.3drealms.com
----------
5/15/00
-------
Time for the obligatory post-E3 commentary. :)

PC titles: There were a lot of upcoming products that look to be very promising.  Halo looked absolutely wonderful; hopefully the gameplay in the shipped product will be as good as the terrific graphical look and feel they demonstrated at the show.  Same goes for Black and White, the look of which I was extremely impressed with, now I'm just hoping the gameplay will be up to the same high standards.  Managed to catch backroom demos of Rune and Max Payne, both of which I'm very much looking forward to as well (I didn't catch many backrooms so I can't comment on other games like Psycho Circus and FAKK2 although I've heard they're also looking extremely good).  Took a look at Raven's Star Trek game and that's also looking to be extremely entertaining (especially for me since I'm a wee bit of a Trekkie), so my thumbs up to them as well.
Also saw and played Warcraft III a bit, thumbs up to the Blizzard guys there.  It doesn't look to be anything astoundingly new for the RTS genre, but it feels like a fun and enjoyable extension to the Warcraft franchise that will likely be quite polished by the time it ships, and that's more than enough to get my dollars.  Altogether while I didn't see any PC titles there that were "revolutionary" in terms of gameplay, I think many were at least "evolutionary" in a positive respect, and I'm eager to see them hit the shelves when the time is right.

Console titles: Nothing in the console arena really stood out for me as much as MGS2.  Even though it was just a video, it looked astounding.  I can only hope the final game plays to the same standards they've set for themselves now with this terrific footage (the number of jaws slamming the ground in front of that screen were almost enough to cause an earthquake).  I'm also eager to play Banjo-Tooie and the Zelda sequel, which although they have little improvement in the technology area, appear to still have the great gameplay from their previous titles (and I'm perfectly happy with "more of the same" when the original is so good that I just want more of it, which was the case for both of these).  Bad Fur Day goes in the same category as Banjo for this, given the similarities, although the character attitude should add a fun and amusing twist or two.

Hardware: I'm not sure if I expressed my enthusiasm well enough to the nVidia guys while I was there, so I'll reiterate what I told them here but with a little more vigor, just to demonstrate my feelings in the proper light.  The GeForce2 KICKS ASS ALL OVER THE PLACE.  Note to other hardware manufacturers: If you don't have T&L with per-pixel shading in your roadmap for consumer-level cards yet, make it a priority, because it changes EVERYTHING for graphics engine developers.  EVERYTHING.  Within the next couple of years, lightmapped games will have gone the way of the dodo completely, like it or not, and you'll want the hardware to be prepared for it.  I'll say here what I said to a couple nVidia guys and a few other developers... I put per-pixel shading in consumer-level cards with the same significance as the shift from 16-bit realmode to 32-bit protected mode game development.  It's just that major.  I eagerly look forward to never having to worry about lightmap generation ever again.  And the GeForce2 is incredibly exciting for me as a result.  I mean, I know it has other great features and additions too, don't get me wrong, but that's the big one in my eyes.  I mean, really... hardware phong (*drool*)!  In other hardware news, I didn't get to see much of the Xbox there unfortunately, but given its cross-compilation plans I think it has the potential to be a nice target for developers otherwise focused purely on the PC.  I just hope that the OS stability issues will be dealt with in a severe fashion; console gamers will not tolerate BSODs to the degree that PC users do.

Disclaimer: I must stress that if I did not mention your product (software, hardware, whatever) here in this list, it does NOT, I repeat, does NOT mean that I didn't like it.  I may very well not have seen it, or I just don't have a chance to type about here.  The stuff mentioned above is just what sticks out in my mind at this time; just a bunch of impressions.  So PLEASE do not take offense if I didn't write about your product; I may have liked it just as much as the ones I did mention here but it might not be on my brain right now.

Final notes: Sending some quick hellos to the Epic guys and other Unreal/UT licensees I met up with at E3 and in Mark Rein's place on Saturday.  I'd met some of you before, some not, but regardless it was great to attach faces to the names of some of the people I'd been chatting (and arguing :) with on the mailing lists for so long now.  You guys are great; I'm looking forward to another chill session sometime in the future. :)

And to all those who asked me at the show, you all know the answer by now... When It's Done! :)

Cheers,
Chris H.
	
    