Ion Storm

User Name.........corrinne
Full Name.........Corrinne Yu
Description.......Director of Advanced Technology
Last NT Logon.....Sunday, January 04, 1998 at 20:12

1-4-98
DISCLAIMER: Since ION is licensing the Q2 engine, and since we are using it in a way that may or may not be similar to Q2, anything I am doing is an attempt (and possibly wrong-headed) to assist development of ION games, which has NOTHING to do with Q2 as a shipping game or technology FOR Q2. I regret very much any thing in my .plan file is construed as a "smack down" of Q2 as a shipping game, or as technology for Q2.

Q2 is a fine game that is developed in an amazingly short amount of time. Carmack is still the KING of scanline rasterizer, and his ability to adapt quickly to any new hardware, with the combination of Hook's hardware expertise, and Cash's multiple player programming experience, makes them an impressive team of technology developer. We all look forward to Trinity.

I am new to this .plan thing. I am used to e-mail in which the audience is people I have a (technical) history and context, and I can afford to be more careless. Now I realize I have to be more careful about all the possible permutations my .plan words can be interpreted by the general public.

1-3-98
OK, better New Year's resolution: Not piss anyone off and have him fight with me.
More seriously, removed more bugs of my LOD code, now rotationally it is stable too. And wants to rewrite criteria functions with a less worse idea than what I did. 
Thank you to all of you who mailed me k00l programming questions and discussions. And for those who are appalled by how I butcher the English language with my (I will admit at a lot of times probably WRONG, you should hear me pronounce them sometimes :) ) use of programming words, please don't read my .plan and hurt yourself. ;p
To debug my LOD, I put in a thing to freeze the POV that I am LOD-ing from and allow me to roam through the frozen world so I can examine my generated little LOD'ed Alias shells in Quake. It is a barrel of geeky fun. (I am easily amused, as well as easily impressed. :) Keeps me happy.)

1-1-98
My New Year's resolution so far is as follows:
Rewrite Quake 2 geometry pipeline math operations (3x4) into symmetrical quaternion math operations, to minimize data moves and copies, flow Pentium data accesses better, and decresase multiplies and data moves inside matrix operations. Done. (Fixed some math bugs during the re-write.) (Boy was that a lot of typing.)
Rewrite Q2 dynamic object (Alias model) geometry and drawing pipeline to improve performance. Done.
Now that ticks per frame are small enough to give me room, add dynamic, silhouette-preserving, level of detail to Alias models to slow it down again. I hope to finish debugging dynamic LOD by this weekend. It is working, but I am still seeing polygons popping rotationally though not translationally. At least Q2 engine frame rate stops being Alias model complexity dependent and remains stable, which to me is a more important goal than higher average frame rate.

The LOD code is actually stand-alone enough to pull into ION's own engine Aidoru, which I can make no progress because there is so much Quake and Quake 2 engine work left for ION games in development.  Hopefully Aidoru can evolve from Q2, but I am not counting on it. :(

I am describing my Q2 work in progress in this .plan partly to encourage id programmers to program these things instead of me. I doubt this ruse would work. ;p I am worried how much my Q2 code already diverges from Q2 license, but it appears the Carmack/Hook bug fixes/optimizations are orthogonal even on a module level from mine, so I did not screw up. I downloaded the latest Q2 patch and my Q2 version is still faster, so I feel better I did not duplicate engineering work. (It is currently not that much faster again with my LOD in progress, but I am ADDING polygons for close objects for data set simulation purpose and frame rate stability, so.)

Maybe Ms. Carly Taylor can give out Carly points to Carmack and Hook for programming some Q2 stuff. I don't think anybody wants Corrinne points. :(

I am also bounded by the polygon-based nature of Q2 model animation format, which with its now higher polygon count, data cache thrash minimization is becoming a problem. After putting in polygon-based LOD into Q2, poly-based appears to be even less probable than description-based as what I would choose as a LOD solution. I would appreciate experiencial testimonials from other LODers out there.

Yes, my New Year's resolution list is actually my Christmas vacation task list summary. This way I cheat and have a better chance of meeting my own resolution. :) Happy New Year to you all.
(File last updated on Sun 04 Jan 1998 at 19:13)
	
    