[rogue-ent.com]

Login name: jimm      			In real life: Jim Molinets
Directory: /Users/jimm              	Shell: /bin/csh
Never logged in.
Plan:
5-5-97

I just wanted to take a couple of minutes and ask all you plan junkies and Quake addicts for some more feedback.  We (Rogue) are getting ready to start on a new project, but I personally would like to get some information on the following:

1) From the id mission packs, which levels did you like best and why?
2) Which new enemies did you like and why?
3) Which weapons did you like and why?
4) Which power-ups ...
(Notice a theme here?)
5) Network games?  Tag? CTF? Three Team? One Flag?
6) Any new ideas that you may have regarding the Quake technology, that you'd like to see.

Basically what I'm looking for is info from the people who have played the packs, Quake, Duke... and would like to have their 2 cents heard.  This is also a chance for people to just give me a shout about stuff they'd like to see in a new product with the technology.  I'm probably asking for trouble here, but for those who want to write, go ahead.

(DISCLAIMER: If I become inundated with mail, I will not be able to reply to everyone.  I can promise you that I will read all of the mail I receive.  Your voice will be heard.  Also, if any information you're going to send is confidential in any way, DO NOT send it to me.  We are planning to use all of the information we receive as a base for designing future products.  Products that have features game players are looking for.  This may mean that we use something that you send us, in one form or another, or that we have already come up with the idea ourselves.  So if you feel that idea is so original, or that it's marketable somewhere else, DO NOT send it to me either.)

Thanks!!

3-27-97

Dissolution of Eternity is OUT!!!  YEAH!!  I can only hope that everyone
out there enjoys that pack as much as we do.  I know this is an old
cliche' but, we make games that we want to play, and we're still lovin'
the pack. (Not in the carnal sense!)

I think we did a pretty good job of adding on to the Quake "universe" and
still keeping the gameplay fun and the feel of Quake in there.  We spent a
lot of time balancing gameplay between regular and multiplayer, and I think
you'll be able to notice this.  All of the levels (with the exception of
the Start map, and the end map in episode 2) are single player, Death
Match, and CTF ready.  This was a feat considering no one has yet to
release such a large number of CTF levels in one fell swoop.  Speaking of
CTF, Rogue's thanks to Zoid for his work on the pack.

But that's my opinion.  We'd like to hear yours.  Let us know what you like
and don't like.  Don't be afraid that you'll bruise our tender egos or
anything like that.  Any and all feedback will only make our next game
better.  It's up to you guys (and gals) to tell us what you're looking for.
We took as much of this to heart as we could before developing DOE.  That's
where the Plasma Gun (BFG) and CTF came from directly.  There's a lot more
in there, but that's what leaps to mind.

Mail: jimm@rogue-ent.com

My favorite tag line:
	Friends help you move.  REAL friends help you move bodies.