Username: petri                     In real life: Petri Jarvilehto      


Plan:
[151098]

Gosh,

The Futuremark guys (finally) came out of their den (they've been
using the conference room for 5 days now, wrapping up the 3D Mark
demo) and told that they would let us (the Max Payne team) to see 
what they've been up to (they're using MAX-FX in some parts of the 
demo, so we've naturally been bugging them to let us see how the 
whole thing turns out).

All of us rushed to the conference room, we turned out the lights
and turned on the volume and let the show begin.

...and it's freakin' awesome. I mean, most of us have a background in
the demoscene, and we know where demos are at the moment, but seeing
3D Mark run on a 400 P2 with TNT was totally amazing. It's good.
It's darn good. Dunno how much impact this will have on the demo-scene,
but hopefully it might draw them out kicking and screaming into the
age of 3d acceleration.

Anyways, that's all for now, we're off to another brainstorm on Max Payne
final content and design. 


[131098]

Hi all,

Just to clear up some confusion. In a recent article it was mentioned
that Max Payne requires a 3D accelerator, a direct quote was: "with
a 3dfx compatible card". I've been getting quite many questions on
this regard, and to set the thing straight, MAX-FX is running now
on DirectX6.0 and we support pretty much all DX6.0 compatible 3d cards. 
To run Max Payne properly you'll need a card that is at least as 
powerful as 3DFX generation 1 card, and if you have a faster accelerator,
you'll end up getting more visual detail.

And some miscellaneous notes:

1) We're not doing any more interviews for the time being. Talking
with people is certainly good fun and all, but it's also pretty easy
to get distracted with all the press etc. We're now going to close 
all the doors, turn off the lights, crank up the volume and do some
heavy duty game developing for the next 4-5 months... We'll tell
more about the game when we're closer to the release, ok? :-)

2) We're very close to getting the new mapper to join us shortly... 
it's been taking longer than expected to get all the practical 
matters solved out (work permits, place to live etc.), but Marty 
is going to fly from Australia in a week or two. 

3) Lately we've been doing huge planning sessions, nailing down the
final content for the game as well as planning out the implementation
of that content. It's been a pretty good (though exhausting) 3 weeks,
and we're now confident that the vision we have on the gameplay is
something that we can deliver.