Name: Scott Alden
Email: aldie@ritual.com

2-4-98
======
It's been a while since the last update, so here's some 
SiN related info.

Finished up the texture conversion utility.  We are adding 
a load of more information into our textures, and they should 
be called surfaces now, as they have a bunch of new properties 
(friction, restitution, lighting, material, etc...). It takes
about 10 minutes to convert the art department's entire
archive over to the new format (~1900 textures).  
The artists are now going through and setting default 
lighting values and material types for all of those textures.
Mark added a bunch of neat things to the SinEd interface 
to help alleviate the pain of doing that stuff by hand.

The .map file converter is also ready to go, and the level
designers will be giving up their personal wad files for a 
unified texture structure.  They of course can override
any of the defaults that have been set by the artists
if they need to.

Next up is to finish off the rest of the tools (bsp,vis,rad)
so the level designers can finish their designs under the 
Q2 rendering engine, then we start dabbling in the 
renderers to update Q2 to what Mark and Jim previously
added to SiN.

Not SiN related:

I attended Billy Z's talk at the Austin CGDC and it sounds
like he's had good success with Java on his new game.

I also took a peek at some of the Java stuff that UberEngine
is using.  It reminds me of the days when I used Tcl/Tk for 
just about everything.  I can't wait to start using it myself.
I've tried to learn MFC many times, but just gave up.  
I had limited amounts of time when I was using it so I didn't 
really give it a fair chance, but when I saw what Gary and 
Charlie accomplished in just a few hours with Java, I think I 
will give up on learning MFC unless I HAVE to.

I think that Java is definitely the way to go for the tools
portion of game design.  I'm not sure about any of the 
other parts of game engines due to speed issues, but that
will probably get resolved in the future.

1-7-98
======
I've been playing a new RTS called NetStorm - Islands at War.

You use the power of rain, sun, thunder to build weapons and
defenses.  There is also an interesting twist where you use
tetris-shaped pieces of bridges to get to other islands.  Even
though I dislike tetris style games, this is a cool aspect of
the game.  The object of the game is to sacrifice the opponent's
priest which has quite an enjoyable sound and animation. :-) 

I'm not sure when it was released, but it seems to have been 
a sleeper this year.  It's a new twist on the RTS genre and one of
the most original I've seen.  If you are into RTS, this is
one to definitely check out.  I've only begun to scratch the 
surface of this game, but I'm already hooked.


1-5-98
======
Well this is my first .plan update and I thought I should give the
rundown on what I'm doing here at Ritual.

I'm currently working with the SiN team and I'm helping out in
the programming area with Mark and Jim.  Back in December I was
working on the scripts that go along with all our characters 
and weapons.  Mark and Jim have implemented this cool scripting
system which allows anyone to tweak the animations and sounds of
all the character/weapon models in the game without making code
changes.  

I was basically running through each monster and weapon 
associating their events in the script (I.e. this guy will
fire his plasma gun on frame 4).  The sound effect timing 
and dynamic lighting is equally as customizable.  It was 
such a joy not having to recompile and re-run SiN each time
I made a change to a script!

I've been on vacation for the past 2 weeks and the new business of 
the year is to get going on the conversion over to the 
Quake 2 codebase.  I'm currently working on the texture
system and trying to get them all converted over to the new format
as well as merging in all the changes that Mark and Jim have 
made. 

I'm really glad to be back in Dallas.  I used to work
at Nortel in Richardson for 3 years before heading out to 
California and 3Dfx.  We had a very large Warhammer Fantasy
gaming group that played very often and unfortunately when
I was in California I couldn't get anybody at 3Dfx interested
in playing.  I guess we all had too much fun with the Voodoo
based games anyway to bother with anything else :-)  

I'm also very happy being back in the land of the large movie
theaters!  The bay area is very behind the times when it comes to 
movie theaters. The only good theaters there were always 
extremely crowded, and new releases sold out very early. We
ended up paying $1.50 surcharge to order our tickets over
movielink.com just to avoid the lines!

That's about all for now.  I hope to keep updating this
as we progress along in the programming effort for SiN.