*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: aldie
Plan modified: Thu Aug 20 23:09:48 1998

Scott Alden - Programmer - Ritual Entertainment
Email: aldie@ritual.com
-----------------------

8-20-98
-------
Mark and I took a break fron Sin coding tonight and played 
Motocross Madness.  Wow.  This game is a LOT of fun!  
We spent about an hour trying to jump over the finish 
line's top girder.  It can be done...

8-12-98
-------
Happy 2nd birthday to Ritual Entertainment!

I can't wait for the birthday party tonight. 

8-6-98
------
First, I just wanted to say thanks to all the people that sent in 
constructive and positive comments about Sin.  This is my first
"official" game, so it feels pretty good that the Sin demo gave
people a lot of enjoyment.  We're working hard to fix the bugs
and a few more little things to make the final game even more 
immersive.

Sin Bug Fun:
------------
An interesting bug popped up in one of the deathmatch games I was in
the other day.  It happens when a player shoots someone with a rocket,
the person who gets hit dies ("Player died" gets printed to the console)
and he loses a frag, and the person who killed em gets nothing.

It was interesting to see that the rocket blast changed the victim's 
velocity with a downward momentum, thus pushing him into the ground and
triggering the falling damage routine.  So, if you hit someone directly
with a rocket doing 97 points of damage the falling damage works out
to about 7 points which credits the "ground" with the frag instead of
the shooter :-)  I'm fixing it now...

Thanks to the guys that pointed it out to me while I was deathmatching
on their server.

Anybody figured out how to make their own HUD yet???

7-9-98
------
Just wanted to add my 2 cents about the Sin scripting video which
Charlie forgot to mention ;-)

The computer terminal that is being used to control Danny is also
fully integrated with the script system so you can design
custom menu systems to control your stuff (if it wasn't obvious from the video).

5-12-98
-------
It's been 3 months since my last .plan update, so I guess it's about time 
for a new one.  

Sin Info
--------
I've been busy working on interface / 2D things for Sin.  We are now 
finalizing the way the interface is going to work.  I've taken the layout
commands from Quake2 and added about 50 new features.  This will let anyone
create custom interfaces for the game menus and the HUD.

The layout commands are kind of like a primitive form of HTML, so if you can
make a webpage, you probably can create a Sin menu or HUD.  One of the cool
things is that everytime I add a new command for the HUD, it can also
be used on the in-game consoles.  This lets you put things like the 
player's health or name on a 3D screen in the game.

I also had to add some networking stuff to get the multiplayer aspect of 
in-game consoles to work and that took a little bit of time. Most of the time
was spent learning how the Quake2 networking system works and fitting in the
new baselines/states for consoles.  I didn't think that something as simple as
a console in the game would be so tricky, but I ran into many problems
while designing them.  A lesson to be learned about multiplayer game aspects
I guess.

Other Stuff
-----------
I didn't get to go to CGDC this year, but Gary McTaggart took a bunch of pics
for me to re-live the experience.  It just wasn't the same :-(  

Until next time...