
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: aldie
Plan modified: Thu Mar 25 14:05:14 1999

Scott Alden - Programmer - Ritual Entertainment
Email: aldie@ritual.com
-----------------------
03-25-99
--------
SinCTF Update

Thanks to everyone who's been playing and giving feedback to 
the SinCTF team!  We really appreciate it.

We're still trying to find one more bug before releasing, and
we can't seem to track it down!  Once we figure this one 
out, we should be ready to go with a full release.

We think that the bug is related to spectators (i.e. those
who have not joined a team).  If the server has crashed
while you were a spectator please let us know the situation
if you could associate it with anything.  Please send 
details to sinctf@ritual.com.


03-19-99 (part 3)
-----------------
New commands added:

dropflag - Drops the flag, but will quickly return to enemy 
base if not picked up.

dropweap - Drops your current weapon.


03-19-99 (part 2)
-----------------
SinCTF Beta 2 is out!

We're still working on the game code, so this is an update to the 
client.

Here's the link:

ftp://ftp.ritual.com/Sin/CTF/sinctfb2.exe

We set up two servers that you can connect to:

debugctf.ritual.com and sinctf.ritual.com

The debugctf is running under a debugger, so it may be a little 
choppy.  Please send any bugs to sinctf@ritual.com.  If you
are easily frustrated by beta software, then don't download
this yet.

Thanks and have fun!  

03-19-99
--------
SinCTF servers at Ritual will be down for a while tonight
while we get SinCTF Beta 2 upgraded and out there.

03-18-99
--------
A Few CTF things:

- The servers may go up and down unexpectedly.  This is because they
crashed ( oh no! ) or we are making code changes and fixing stuff.

- Here's some useful commands to bind if you didn't see the readme yet:

'droptech' - so you can pick up the best tech rune when you see it, or 
drop the nasty deathquad.

'messagemode2' - so you can type messages to your team.  'say_team' also works
for binding keys to useful messages like "Base is clear", etc...

'weaponuse' - this is basically an alternate fire command used for 
firing a grenade from the chaingun, firing a thrallball from the 
rocket launcher, and zooming the sniper rifle.


03-17-99
--------
Please run sinctf.exe when you are running CTF.  Sin.exe
works, but you miss out on some stuff.


03-16-99
--------
SinCTF Beta 1 is out!

This is a public beta to just help us get the kinks worked out.
We've been playtesting in the office for while now and it seems
to be going pretty good.  We are only releasing the client for
now, but the gamedll will be forthcoming so you can setup 
your own server.

Here's the link:

ftp://ftp.ritual.com/Sin/CTF/sinctfb1.exe

We set up two servers that you can connect to:

debugctf.ritual.com and sinctf.ritual.com

The debugctf is running under a debugger, so it may be a little 
choppy.  Please send any bugs to sinctf@ritual.com.  If you
are easily frustrated by beta software, then don't download
this yet.

Thanks and have fun!  

03-09-99
--------
* Shameless Plug *

"Wages of Sin", the first mission pack for Sin is
available at CompUSA for $9.99 after instant rebate. 

* SinCTF *
SinCTF is coming along nicely and should be ready for beta 
by early next week.  We currently have 5 maps up and running
and expect a few more when the rest of the designers finish up.

Here is a list of features:
--------------------------
2 teams : Sintek vs. Hardcorps

Anytime use grappling hook - no need to switch weapons

4 Tech Powerups:
   o Double Damage - Doubles your damage ( duh )
   o Regneration - Gain health over time
   o 1/3 Damage Shield - Reduces all damage you take to 1/3
   o Empathy Shield - Splits damage between you and your attacker

* New alternate fire of the Rocket Launcher shoots a 'ThrallBall' for
  10 rockets

* Alternate fire of the chaingun shoots a grenade

* Sniper Rifle is more than likely a 1 shot kill

* Scoring system allows for frag bonus assists, flag protection, 
  base defense bonus

* Player controlled turrets

* Custom CTF HUD


02-17-99
--------
Sin Update

Congratulations to the 2015 guys on getting the mission pack done!  It is
really fun to play and they took advantage of a lot of stuff that we
didn't get a chance to use in Sin...

Other Sin news - If you hadn't seen it on www.ritualistic.com yet,
a bunch of us here are Ritual and the Cops and Robbers team are 
co-working on SinCTF.  Things are coming together pretty nicely
and quickly... I don't know when we're going to be finished with it, 
but the development team is whipping stuff up pretty fast.

Go to www.ritualistic.com for more information, and look for a
beta soon!


01-22-99
--------
To listen to the cheesy Sin Deathmatch Song type these 
commands in the console when you are in a level:

soundtrack rammdm
music normal

Song was written by Zak Belica
Performed by The Ritual Crew
Mixed by Zak Belica

11-08-98
--------
Crash bug in Sin - Area57 - Mutant Mode

Don't save your game in this level.  Try to complete it 
without dying.  This will allow you to transform back 
to human form and continue the game.  If you are having
trouble finishing this level, use the health cheat 
( Type "health 200" at the console ) to give yourself 
a boost.

There is a bug with savegames and mutant mode, and the
game will crash when you receive the antidote to be 
transformed back to a human.

11-06-98
--------

Part II
--------
Resolution changing problem with the menus has been isolated.  960x720
was left out of the menu, so all the modes are off by 1 after 800x600.

If you're so lucky as to be able to run at 1024x768, crank the setting
over to 1152x864.

------------------------------------------------------

***SIN LOADING TIMES***

If you want to increase your loading speed for quick saves
type these commands at the console before you start a game:

developer 1
set flushmap 0

This speeds up "quick" loads i.e. when you already have the
map loaded.  Dying in the game isn't as painful now :-)

By setting developer to 1, it will not draw the status bar, so you
won't get to see in between level information. This will save you 
about 20 or so seconds of loading time on just about any map. You 
will probably also see some warnings printed out since developer
provides verbose information about what's going on in the game.

"flushmap" was used to explicitly free maps after they are already loaded 
for development purposes.

These fixes will be incorporated into the first patch and these commands
should help in the meantime.  The status bar has been optimized as to 
not take up as much time, and flushmap will explicitly be set to 0.


10-30-98
--------
Just walked into the office this morning to hear that Sin went
( GM ) Gold Master sometime last night.  I think that the word has been
sent out to all the news sites.  

We've all been busting our asses to get this thing finished, and the
last few days have been pure hell,  but I think that it will
all be worth it.  The epsiodes really came together in these last 
few weeks, and I have to thank all the Sin level designers and
artists for putting up with all the code thrashing and 
functionality changes they had to go through in the last 
moments. 

We'll probably be writing up a post-mortem on the development of
the game, so look for that sometime soon.  

Start looking for Sin in stores sometime next week!

8-20-98
-------
Mark and I took a break fron Sin coding tonight and played 
Motocross Madness.  Wow.  This game is a LOT of fun!  
We spent about an hour trying to jump over the finish 
line's top girder.  It can be done...

8-12-98
-------
Happy 2nd birthday to Ritual Entertainment!

I can't wait for the birthday party tonight. 

8-6-98
------
First, I just wanted to say thanks to all the people that sent in 
constructive and positive comments about Sin.  This is my first
"official" game, so it feels pretty good that the Sin demo gave
people a lot of enjoyment.  We're working hard to fix the bugs
and a few more little things to make the final game even more 
immersive.

Sin Bug Fun:
------------
An interesting bug popped up in one of the deathmatch games I was in
the other day.  It happens when a player shoots someone with a rocket,
the person who gets hit dies ("Player died" gets printed to the console)
and he loses a frag, and the person who killed em gets nothing.

It was interesting to see that the rocket blast changed the victim's 
velocity with a downward momentum, thus pushing him into the ground and
triggering the falling damage routine.  So, if you hit someone directly
with a rocket doing 97 points of damage the falling damage works out
to about 7 points which credits the "ground" with the frag instead of
the shooter :-)  I'm fixing it now...

Thanks to the guys that pointed it out to me while I was deathmatching
on their server.

Anybody figured out how to make their own HUD yet???

7-9-98
------
Just wanted to add my 2 cents about the Sin scripting video which
Charlie forgot to mention ;-)

The computer terminal that is being used to control Danny is also
fully integrated with the script system so you can design
custom menu systems to control your stuff (if it wasn't obvious from the video).

5-12-98
-------
It's been 3 months since my last .plan update, so I guess it's about time 
for a new one.  

Sin Info
--------
I've been busy working on interface / 2D things for Sin.  We are now 
finalizing the way the interface is going to work.  I've taken the layout
commands from Quake2 and added about 50 new features.  This will let anyone
create custom interfaces for the game menus and the HUD.

The layout commands are kind of like a primitive form of HTML, so if you can
make a webpage, you probably can create a Sin menu or HUD.  One of the cool
things is that everytime I add a new command for the HUD, it can also
be used on the in-game consoles.  This lets you put things like the 
player's health or name on a 3D screen in the game.

I also had to add some networking stuff to get the multiplayer aspect of 
in-game consoles to work and that took a little bit of time. Most of the time
was spent learning how the Quake2 networking system works and fitting in the
new baselines/states for consoles.  I didn't think that something as simple as
a console in the game would be so tricky, but I ran into many problems
while designing them.  A lesson to be learned about multiplayer game aspects
I guess.

Other Stuff
-----------
I didn't get to go to CGDC this year, but Gary McTaggart took a bunch of pics
for me to re-live the experience.  It just wasn't the same :-(  

Until next time...







