*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: jake
Plan modified: Thu Mar 29 01:05:00 2001

It's been a few years since I've made a plan file. 

My use of the english language has deteriorated since being on Anox, SPPOOT, so if some words don't seem to make sense, don't worry... it's my new form of English.

I've just finished the new Battle Teaser.
it weighs in at 1:19.
the formats will be 
640x480 mpeg
320x240 mpeg
640x480 avi
320x240 avi
640x480 mov
320x240 mov

it was edited on Final Cut Pro and a nifty G4 (Thanks Kavanaugh!). The past Trailers (Anox & a Daikatana one that I did) were cut on Speed Razor, a PC editing program. I really liked it, but the Perception Video board died a miserable death and took all the video files with it. So I switched to FCP, which I'm still getting a handle on.

To get a really clean Video File, Anox can render out 30 screenshots a second. You can then import these screens into any program (like Premiere, Speed Razor, FCP, etc) as a targa sequence and then generate a video file. The Video files look great and you don't have to use a capture board/VGA converter (which i think looks Crummy). But you would still have to capture the Audio. Which is what I did. What's great for all the Digital movie makers out there is that they can make a movie (using Planet, see below) , render it out and edit scenes in Premiere, and then add all kinds of FX using programs like Adobe After Effects. Which is also what I did with the Intro and Outro to the Battle Teaser (titles and other stuff).

Planet is the tool used to make all the in engine cines and all the battle scripts. It's awesome. It's very much like a real editing system, it uses a time line and all entites and cameras can be controlled on it. Roll, focus, Animation, Alpha, and much much more.

Now, some may say, oh so the teaser is all rendered footage, well... yes.... it is. But the footage was recorded as I was playing battle, the images that the trailer contains are all real in engine battle scripts(what A player will see, whenever we finish this damn game). I would just press the render button, and it would slow down and start writing a bunch of screenshots. In fact, some great things happened during the recording, I cast slow 3 on one of the enemies I was facing, and Boots happened to be in the foreground, so the shot was a cool silouhette of Boots in front of a bright blue Slow 3 Mystech spell in a really dark level. A bunch of that kinda stuff happened while I was recording. Since the Battle scripts are all relative, some really neat images can sometimes occur. Squirrel wrote a config for me to turn off the menu icons display, cuz I didn't want those in the teaser, which is why a lot of the framing is in the upper 3/4 of the screen. the bottom 1/4 is reserved for the menus (If anyone was wondering about the composition).

I made all the Mystech, battleskill & weapon scripts. There are 8 main Mystech types, each with 4 different levels. the 7 main characters have 4 battleskills each, and 4-6 weapon types.
Travis 343 Doggit is responsible for all the Monster scripts. of which there are about 70 I think. Each monster has between 2-3 different types of attacks.
Each script is unique, So there was LOTS of material to choose from. 

Putting the teaser was both Heaven & Hell. I'm finished with it so I'm writing a plan file to celebrate.

Rich & I finished recording all the main actors dialogue. Noel has been helping out with the Magpie Mouth files, which is really Awesome.
So the next few weeks I will placing all the dialogue into the cinematics. oh Happy Day!

The Trailer should be avialble for download in the next week or so. Enjoy.
Laytuh 4 alla U's
-Strider