*** Monolith Production's Finger Server 1.0 beta

User name: israel
Plan modified: Wed Nov 11 20:19:21 1998

11/11/98


		

		Well, hello there...  It sure has been a while since you last dropped by.  Have a seat next to the fire.  It will sooth your aching back and wipe the troubles from your brow.   This is a special fire, mind you, it won't take any of the usual nonsense; E-Z Logs and newspaper are definitely not accepted.  This flame feeds on things like teenage angst and midlife crisis' and spits them out as pure Joy.  The light of this fire is warming to, not only the skin, but to all the deeper levels of your being, such as your liver, spleen and your spiritual bowels and assorted intestines.    

    I was lucky enough to come across this beautiful illuminatory life giver while traveling the far reaches of the sun with my good friend Dog-Faced Boy.  He had come to visit Me and my Shadow and mayhap lute about cavorting our tongues in great bardly fashion.  We had been walking all day (and let me tell you...   It's always day on the sun!) entertaining the passing flocks of phoenix, when we reach the far side of the sun, which always happens to be the side on which your not, but for some reason we were able to finally find the shortcut that allowed us to be where we were not presently at and ... well... It's all very confusing but at any rate, there we were on the far side of the sun and lo and behold the greatest mother of all mother ships loomed before us on pink and purple stilts of intertwined Pixie Stix.  Of course we felt a little bit befuddled by this unexpected aerial apparition though we were able to compose our selves and a few short letters to the editor concerning the overuse of large extra terrestrial craft in very short fiction before the emissary of Emilia Fontagnebleu, of the capaxian Fontagnebleus, waddled over to greet us with fried fish pics and boiled bibles.  He invited us in to dine with the Madame but all the while staring at us so cross eyed and buggy like that we got the impression that he didn't really want us there and was only inviting us at the request of his Mistress and her professional wrestling compatriot Jesse "The Body" Ventura.  We were enjoying the weather and had many more sun spots to seek out so we politely declined with a wave of the hair and twist of the tongue and bid our pudgy friend a flighty farewell.  

             It was moments after this unexpected meeting that the Grandmothership took off in a huff and a puff and, well, blew our little bardic butts down into a newly formed Million Candle Cavern, so named because of it's relative brightness where we came upon the famed flame of friendship.  Or to be exact, I came to be crumpled in a twisted little heap in the very center of this flame.  Dog Faced Boy was over in the corner talking to the stalag-earmites who were attached to the walls of this place.  He seemed very excited and was "whooping" a lot.   I was soon distracted from the Whooping Wonder by the many ethereal caresses perpatrated by the multifarious flickers of flame emanating from this warmth giving joyous life-light.  "what are you?" I asked it with my eye lashes.  In reply I recieved a thousand fiery kisses in a thousand different tongues.  
	"I am love," it told me, "your truest friend, and all the dreams you've ever dreamed."
	"All that?"  I wondered with my tongue flapping in the west winds that smelled strangely of Wisteria.
	"...And Smores!"  It whispered as smiles fluttered across my luminous form.
	I turned around and around whistling at the top of my toes and yodeled to my new found love, "Great!   I LOVE SMORES!"  This jolted Dog Faced Boy out of his irreverant reverie and in curiosity caused him to do a little jig on his way over to this fire pit of passion.  Once there he asked me who the new flame was and I told him her story in Pig Latin and puntuated the tale with bacon strips which were quickly devoured by my famished feline fiching friend.  In exclamation we both took hold of a hundred piglets and tossed them at the nearby polititians and were reminded that we hadn't eaten all day.  This caused our distended stomachs to cry, cry for needed nourishment and we drooled in remorse.  We decided to invite this brand new infinite flame aboard our invisible pedal powered spaceship.  She accepted our request with a million tiny shivers sent up my spine.  I saw stars.  She was perfect.  I loved her. 
	So there we were at the end of the tale heading off into the sunrise as it set behind us, koala bears in ours arms and kind thoughts in our hearts and a colony of Stalag-earmites on good ol' DFB's left shoulder.  The great phoenix, the father of them all, filled the sky with his majesty and turned the world vermillion.  The day was looking good.

	Now, many months later, this fantastic flame and I are enjoying every moment together.  We share them.  She gets one half and I get the other.  Later we trade and compare notes on the various attributes of these temporal units and try them all on again after they have metamorphosed into the evanescant winged beings named Memories.  

FLAME ON!


I...


    Octember/ the eggplant week.    

   Oh, callooh  callay!  Oh Frabjuous day!  I have the most frightening of good news.  This Dryadical Dreamer has gone and done something which many of you would call mad.  I have committed my self to the task of living with someone for as long as living  is what we are doing.  I think the contract and pledge is renegotiable after corporeal discontinuance, but we can probably wait see.  No sense in worrying about the stuff that hasn't yet happened..  This sort of insanity seems to happen most often when the only form of expression that will even somewhat hint towards the immense goodness you feel for someone is the thrilling opera of your life.  They get box seats, popcorn, those cool little opera goggles, while you dedicate the show to them.  Now of course this isn't just a one man show.  They have to help out with the sets and maybe a little assistance with the plot here and there..   Help with costume changes will probably be needed on occasion..  We'll have to get some one to work in concessions and hire and usher or two....  anyway, I'm looking forward to this grand adventure.  These two heads are better than one and sometimes you feel like a nut while at other times you just don't.  I'm gettin' hitched and i'll keep you updated.

May the shcwartz be wit' ya!