Login: kevink         			Name: Kevin Kilstrom
Plan:
9/23/98

Too...busy,..no...time..to...up...date.....plan...file,.....gaaaaaah......

8/10/98

I'll be skinning monsters and making 'em wiggle around all day today.  It's a messy job but it's gotta be done.

I saw Halloween H20 on Saturday.  That is a great flick.  I haven't seen a good old fashioned horror movie like that in a long time.  Jamie Lee Curtis was awesome and the ending was perfect.  Two thumbs up in my book. 

I also had quite the adventure on Friday night with a few of the Blood 2 guys.  I was in Bill's office discussing his latest list of texture requests when Shlegz walked in.  He said he had the scoop on a killer rave party and was wondering if we wanted to go.  Ben came in right behind him and since we all needed a break from the grueling production schedule of Blood 2 we decided we'd go with him.  We all piled into Shlegz' ride and proceeded to travel south for TWO AND A HALF HOURS to Centralia, all the while trying to get even the slightest detail of this so-called rave without any luck.  Anytime we'd ask Scott a question he'd just say something like, "Dude, chill out, this is gonna rule".  We pull up to a farmhouse in the middle of nowhere and Scott immediately jumps out of the car and runs full speed up to the front porch screaming, "PAAARRRTTYYYYY!!!!"  Ben , Bill, and I walk up to the open front door and look in.  There are a total of seven people in the living room including Scott who's already dirty dancing with one of the two chicks, or should I say cowgirls (and I don't mean cowgirls in that they were wearing chaps and cowboy hats).  Bill and I just look at each other and then at Ben who had instantly grabbed the microphone to the homemade karaoke machine and was busting out with the human beatbox verse of "Hit it Run" by Run DMC which was blasting throughout the house.  Bill and I sat down next to this dude named Ray who thins trees for a living and owns two dozen sheep.  Bill asked him why the lower half of his shirt was missing and Ray replied, "Well, I was working in the forest today and had to go to the bathroom.  And seein' as how there ain't no toilet paper in the forest, I just cut off the bottom of my shirt.  A heh heh."  I asked Ray if he had ever played Redneck Rampage and he just looked at me with a blank stare and said "Huh?".
We sat through Ben's versions of "Sweet Child O' Mine" by Guns and Roses, "Kiss me Deadly" by Lita Ford, and "Big City Nights" by the Scorps.  When he started in with Quiet Riot's "Come on feel the noiseM-^…", Bill and I decided we'd take a look around the place.  We went around back to this huge corn field.  I walked into it and started saying stuff like, "I am he who walks behind the rows", and "Malachi, do my bidding".  Bill got all freaked out and started yelling "Knock it off!  That's not funny!"  I came out and walked over to him.  He instantly turned away and started wiping his eyes.  I was like, "Dude, I'm just jokin'!  Hey, let's go check out that barn.  Maybe there's some cool stuff in there!"  He said "Ok", and I put my arm around his shoulder and we skipped over to the barn.  We spent probably an hour in there looking around for anything good to snag but the only things in there were a few rusty old tools and horse crap.  We finally decided to go back and check on the party.
We walked into the living room.  Everyone had left except for Ben who was standing in front of a full length mirror belting out Ratt"s "Round and Round".  He was rocking back and forth, screaming "M-^…love will find a way just give it time."  I yelled "BEN!" and he turned around all startled and said "Hey guys, what's up?"  I said "Let's go find Scott and get the heck out of here."
As we were walking around the side of the house we saw Shlegel standing in a kiddie pool soaking wet in nothing but his tight red jockeys.  The girl that he had been dancing with was standing about ten feet away from him mumbling something like, "I don't want to go skinny dipping".  Just then we heard a car pull up the gravel driveway.  The girl turned to us and said, "Oh my gosh!  That's my parents!  My dad will kill you if he catches you here!"  Ben asked why and she replied, "Cause I'm supposed to be grounded and I'm only thirteen!"  Shlegel yelled "What the HELL!?!?!"  Ben, Bill, and I ran to hide in the barn with Shlegz following behind carrying his clothes and shoes.  He got dressed and we waited for the lights to go out in the house before sneaking back to the car.
I drove us home because Scott was too depressed to drive.  Bill cheered him up a little bit when he pulled a CD out from under his jacket,  "Hey guys, look what I snagged from Nathan's office.  It's Journey's Greatest Hits!"  I saw a smile crack Scott's face and we all sang with happy hearts "Ohhh, the wheel in the sky keeps on turnin',M-^…"



7/22/98

Three more monsters skinned.
Now on to the growing list of texture and object requests.

Dussault and I made a trip back to the Salvation Army outdoor public swimming pool yesterday.  The lady who kicked us out last year was still working as a lifeguard but she didn't seem to recognize us.  As soon as Mike saw her he said he was gonna get revenge.  I told him to forget about it and that we should just chill out for a while by the pool.  We each grabbed a lawn chair and kicked back for about ten minutes.  Then Mike said he wanted to jump in the pool to cool off.  I didn't think that was a very good idea seeing as how he was wearing his "babe magnets" (white boxer shorts with the fly sewn shut).  Before we even came to the pool I reminded him about what happens when white cotton gets wet and how it vacuforms itself to ones body and at the same time becomes practically transparent.  He agreed and sat back down, after all, the pool didn't look that inviting.  With the combo of hot weather all week and a hundred screaming kids all with empty bladders the water looked more like milky lemonade than anything else.  You couldn't even see the bottom of the pool in the shallow end.  Plus the old dude who's in charge of running the place wasn't using chlorine to treat the pool.  Instead he was dumping gallons of lemon scented bleach in the deep end.
We sat in the sun for about an hour and Mike was starting to look a little red.  I told him he could use some of the suntan lotion I had brought but he didn't want any.  He said a little burn is a good base for a dark tan.  Just then I think the lifeguard recognized us cause she started walking over to where we were sitting.  Mike jumped up ready to spout off a string of obscenities if she tried to make us leave.  Unfortunately, he slipped on the wet concrete tripping the lifeguard who in turn came crushing down in all her 300+ pounds of glory right on top of him.  All I heard was a muffled "GAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!" and the scraping sound of Mike's newly burnt back against the rough "non-skid" brushed concrete.  I helped the lifeguard up and carried the barely conscious shell of Mike D. back to the car.
When we got back to Monolith I rubbed Noxzema on Mike's back and handed him the phone number that the lifeguard wanted him to have.