Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
On since Sat May  1 23:49 (EDT) on ttyp0 from 216.27.43.214:0.0
   1 hour 6 minutes idle
No mail.
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Sunday, May 02, 1999

Haven't updated my .plan recently because I haven't
had anything to say and I need to move my .plan off of
finger.epicgames.com.  We decided a while back that
anyone at Epic can have a .plan file if they want,
but they can't host it on company hardware.  (A good
decision in my own estimation.)

Personally, I've been becoming more and more frustrated
with internet gaming media.  Tabloidism seems to have
infected every news site out there, with the goal of the
scoop story outweighing accuracy in reporting.  Its the
man just trying to get me down.

- Unreal 224V

The Unreal 224V patch has been released.  You can get the
patch by visiting unreal.epicgames.com/versions.htm.
Everyone at Epic apologizes for the tardiness of the patch.
Its a textbook example of software feature creep.  Frederick
Brooks would be ashamed :-)

As a result of the feature creep, Unreal 224V has some cool
features to check out.  The patch is our first public run
of Erik de Neve's new mesh level of detail code.  Big fights
with lots of players and pickups on the screen should not
result in any significant loss of frame rate.  The code
collapses meshes very cleanly, so player meshes should look
like players even at 15% their original poly count.

Mod authors should check out Erik's LOD notes at:
http://unreal.epicgames.com/LODTechnologyNotes.htm

The other very cool feature in 224V is Tim's new OpenGL
renderer.  If you own a Riva TNT card you definately need
to check it out.

- Unreal Tournament

I've been working on things all over the board for Unreal Tournament.
Finalizing tutorials, fixing gameplay issues, implementing the
single player game, writing parts of the story, writing bot
descriptions, working on the heads up display, and so forth.

We released a shot of a few of the UT skins.  Each of those skins
has 4-8 faces you can pick from and 4 different color variations.
We wanted skin designs that covered some different bases: military,
criminal, "hero."  The shot we release are of the skins on the
actual models.  They look GREAT in game.  The face customization
is really fun.  Some of the faces are military types, some are
action heroes, some are drugged up criminals, some are just mean
mother fuckers.  Pretty sweet all in all.

Shane Caudle modeled and skinned the top row and James Schmalz
modeled and skinned the bottom row.  Having a lot of looks and
personalities to choose from right from the start rocks.

- Japanese Game Titles

Put down that Irritating Stick!  Cliff sent me this URL where you
can generate your own Super Turbo Doki Doki Japanese Game Titles:

http://www.nationalgamereview.com/99.4.26/words/japan.html

My personal favorite is "Ultra Mekka Jesus Testes" but
"Hello Kitty's Rotten Kitty Dildo" comes a close second.

- Neat Thing

I turn 21 in 42 days.