Login: greenmarine    			Name: Brandon Reinhart
Directory: /home/greenmarine        	Shell: /bin/bash
Last login Mon Jul 26 18:59 (EDT) on ttyp4 from 216.27.43.207
Mail forwarded to brandon@epicgames.com
Mail last read Wed Jul 14 17:39 1999 (EDT)
Project:
Unreal Tournament
Plan:
Brandon "GreenMarine" Reinhart
Unreal Team Programmer
Epic MegaGames, Inc.

Wednesday August 18, 1999

Ah, very embarassing.  I got Jeff's name wrong and called him
Joe.  Sorry man!!!!!!

Check this out.  This church in Colorado is burning Pokemon cards
because they are evil.  (Duh)  Elevating your average six your old
above God to the position of Master through role playing.

http://www.denverpost.com/news/news0814a.htm

The article mentions this Pastor's child ripping the head and
arms off of a Pokemon doll.  Look at this face:





Just who is the violent party here?

They also dislike Magic the Gathering, which, according to the
article is "a game similar to Dungeons and Dragons."  I suppose
they are using similar loosely in that they are both games played
by humans.

On that note, I've ordered two imported Cradle of Filth albums
from amazon.com and a Venom 2 CD set.  Can't wait until they show
up!  I think I'll play a couple games of Magic the Gathering while
I wait.

Some people have asked me what the status of the UT Linux client is.
Well, the answer to that is to refer you to Jeff Slutter's recent
comments on the status of the Descent 3 Linux Client:

"Some things left to do on it before release.  No sound yet. No joystick yet.
A few minor bugs here and there, nothing major (that is known).  Oh yeah,
some thread issues need to be solved for internet name lookup too."

That's pretty much my status exactly.  Wonder if he's been lookin at my code? :P

Saturday August 14, 1999

"Last night I had the strangest dream... I was in my room all by myself... but all
of a sudden, there was not just me there, but a hundred me's... a thousand me's...
The strangest thing was... it felt good... I felt like I was a part of something...
like I belong... I hope I have the same dream tonight."

Well, I just finished System Shock 2 and I have a few thoughts.

* Warning, Spoilers *

I was angry when I got to the Body of the Many.  I thought it was the last
level and was frustrated that the game would end in a biomass style level like
Half-Life.  I think its a really bad move to build up a game with a gothic 
industrial style only to end it with a biomass map.  I didn't like this about
Half-Life and it really pissed me off when I got there in SS2.

I started to change my mind as I found Fontane's recordings.  Especially
his final recording about the teeth closing in.  Very cool.  The final battle
with the Many was anticlimatic, in my mind.  I had come all this way just to
shoot at a column of flesh?  Grr.  And I hardly had any life or ammo, so I was
saving every 6 seconds just to get through the thing.  Argh.  At least the
Many's death scene could have been more dramatic.

BUT BUT BUT

Then I was thrown into SHODAN's memories.  This was cool as all hell.  It was
neat being back in the med deck of the Citadel.  They even used the same textures!
Very cool.  The final battle with SHODAN wasn't hard.  I knew what I had to do and
I did it.  I was frustrated by the ending movie.  First, I wasn't sure if it was
a bad ending or a good ending.  Could I have stopped the escape pod way back on
the command deck?  I knew that was going to happen when I watched the pod fly
away.  I knew it.  If the future of the Earth depends on my actions, why not 
put that thing under my control as well?  Its not necessary to have a cliff 
hanger in a story.  Especially not in a game like this.  Its very anticlimatic 
to go through hell only to find out you were defeated by a factor outside of 
your control.

I would have liked to actually have had the choice whether or not to join 
SHODAN.  When will game developers realize that not all players are heroic?  
I was fighting SHODAN for survival.  A completely selfish reason.  I fought 
SHODAN for the same reason in the first game.

I also didn't like the model of the player or his voice.  I'm of the role playing
school of thought that I am the character.  I'm not a puppet master.  I don't want
to see myself if I can avoid it: it takes away from the suspension of disbelief.
When you see yourself you think "that is not how I envisioned my character, all
this time, I have been controlling someone else."

System Shock 2 was an incredible game with a terribly anticlimatic ending.  I wonder
if this is because they had to get it done, or merely because it was underdesigned?

Don't take my comments as a reason not to buy the game.  The game is fucking 
incredible.  Its worth it just to be scared our your nut as you crawl through 
the lower decks.

I just feel that the ending could have been much stronger...so fuck it.  I'll make up
my own ending in my mind.  Gamer's prerogative.

A couple other things.  One, I loved the Delacroix character.  It sucked that she was dead
when I found her.  Two, I was hoping William Bedford Diego would have had a larger
role.  Three, I was hoping Xerxes would have had a larger role.  What if, for example,
you had to remove Xerxes ethical constraint and disconnect him from the Many to
solve a puzzle.  Later, Xerxes battles SHODAN, each with their own vision of the
future.

Shrug.  This game rocked.  It was chock full of story, environment, and fear.  Kick ass
stuff.  There was so much content, I can just imagine a thousand other ways of using
it.  But we all have our preferences.  I'm really into cyberpunk mythos and music, so
I learn more towards that kind of story telling.  Power through biotech is much less
interesting to me than power through cybertech.  I didn't bat an eye as I blew the
Many to hell.

:-)