Welcome to Human Head Studios' Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Chris Rhinehart
Email: crhinehart@humanhead.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Rune
Web Page: Human Head Studios' Web SiteThis plan file is the opinion of the individual who writes it and does not reflect the opinions of the Human Head Studios.
Last Updated: 10/25/1999 15:45:53 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
October 26, 1999
----------------

Damn.  Been a while since I updated this.

RUNE:  

Progress is going excellent.  Currently working on the combat system and getting
the rest of Ragnar's abilities finished.

We added proper dynamic shadows on actors last week.  It's amazing how much better these 
shadows look compared to the generic round blob found in most other games.  Our shadows do not
use the stencil buffer... instead they use a technique similar to that found in Nocturne and 
Vampire:  The Masquerade.

Speaking of Nocturne:  Congrats to Terminal Reality on going gold.  Nocturne is a super cool,
atmospheric game.  Can't wait to play the full version, and can't wait to celebrate with you
guys later this week in New Orleans  :)


FRAG3:  

I'll be giving a technical presentation on RUNE, and all of the enhancements we've done to 
the Unreal engine, modifying it for a 3rd-Person melee game.  Highlights of the talk will be
our skeletal system, continuous LOD system, the dynamic actor shadows, and tons of other
interesting tech bits.


PALM5:

In a non-RUNE related update, I visited my brother the other day... visiting him is always
interesting because he tends to buy more "gizmo" toys than I do, so it's fun to check out
his latest purchases.  This time, he bought a Palm5 and had quite a few cool games on it.
The Palm line has always seemed pretty interesting, but I've never been motivated to actually
buy one of them.

Until now.  He had the coolest game on his Palm5 -- Taipan.  A little history on Taipan:
It was a game that (I think) originated on the Apple //.  The gist of the game was that you 
sailed around, fought enemy pirates and traded goods (eventually trading opium, since in the 
game that made the most money).  Taipan on the Palm5 was a pretty good port, and I felt myself just
as addicted to it the other day as I did years ago back on the Apple.

Best quote from the game: "Bad Joss,  You've been beaten up and robbed of 1.45 Million dollars."