Welcome to Human Head Studios' Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Tim Gerritsen
Email: tgerritsen@humanhead.com
Description: Business Development Director
Project: All
Web Page: Human Head Studios' Web SiteThis plan file is the opinion of the individual who writes it and does not reflect the opinions of the Human Head Studios.
Last Updated: 06/21/1999 21:34:12 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rune is really moving along and is looking great.  The convergence 
of coolness has begun as we have begun to pull together programming
prowess, wickedly inventive story, and awesome visuals into the game.
Keep checking out our site for new screen shots as we begin to show
the fruits of our labor.

Someone once told me that making a game is like being pregnant for 18
months to two years.  Having a couple of kids of my own, I understand 
this analogy completely.  Here's hoping that our baby does good.

---

In game news, I wanted to congratulate the MechWarrior 3 Team over at 
Zipper Interactive for a job well done.  Mech 3 is well-tuned and 
a lot of fun to play.  Despite some annoying bugs, which I am sure 
are due to Microprose's habitual 'rush it out the door' mentality I 
played the game straight through from beginning to end and had a 
blast.  

I was disappointed that some of the stuff I wrote for the design and
for the cinema sequences made it into the game but not into the credits, 
but not enough not to recognize a job well done.  Now how about that
multiplayer patch so I can really go at it online and stomp some tail?

I also picked up Heavy Gear 2, a title I've been watching for a long
time as both a fan and former competitor for that title, and was 
supremely let down.  When I first saw the engine last fall, it looked
great.  However, in the final tuning, something got lost, and the game
overall has an extremely rushed feel to it.  Since they waited this long
to release the game, I am suprised that they didn't just wait a little
longer and really tune it.  As a big time Heavy Gear fan, I really wanted
to love this title and was really disappointed.  The engine is fast and 
pretty, though, so I hope that the upcoming Interstate 82 (based on the 
same engine) lives up to the promise and the team is allowed to take 
the time to polish it.

---

Let me also let everyone that I recently had the misfortune of having
to call Adobe last week for technical support on Premiere.  If there
is any justice in this world, the CEO of Adobe will have to go to a
hell where he will spend the rest of eternity being forced to seek
technical support from his own company.  After being on hold for 
twenty minutes, I got some marketing drone who asked me marketing
questions before informing me that it wasn't his job to provide support
but to collect marketing data before passing me on to support!  ARRRGGGH.
Then I waited twenty minutes more (it's the principle of the thing- I
had to stay on the line!) and finally got through to a tech support
drone who obviously barely knew how to boot Premiere, let alone provide
support for it!  After she told me she had never heard of AMD, and didn't
know what a K-something chip was (I was having trouble getting Premiere
to operate on our K7 test box), I told her to get the hell off planet Mac
once in awhile and learn to support the other systems they make software for.
(Now don't get pissed at me my Mac friends, I have a G3 that I teach digital
video on, and am quite happy with it, but if Adobe is going to sell PC software
they should at least learn a little about the damn market.)

Enough ranting...

----

Take care, all, and remember...

What were the skies like when you were young?