Welcome to Human Head Studios' Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Tim Gerritsen
Email: tgerritsen@humanhead.com
Description: Business Development Director
Project: All
Web Page: Human Head Studios' Web SiteThis plan file is the opinion of the individual who writes it and does not reflect the opinions of the Human Head Studios.
Last Updated: 09/13/1999 16:53:04 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I just wanted to write a little bit about ECTS.  Human Head was fortunate enough,
through the good graces of G.O.D. to be able to go to the show and reveal the latest
version of Rune to the world.

We were in a backroom showing the game to invited press and salespeople only, and I have
to say it was incredible.  First off, we were in a room with FAKK 2 and KISS: Psycho Circus
which was strange enough in itself.  We had the best third party examples of the current
front running engines all in the same room showing off their wares, and all three games
were published by G.O.D..  This is something I think the press should touch on, since 
all three games looked killer, and showed just what you can do with the current tech by
modifying it to your own needs.  We've all substantially added to the base technologies
and have come up with some unique ways to handle game play issues to match each of these
engines' strengths.  (I still think our animation engine ruled, however. :) Sorry guys.)

It was great to finally show off the game play of Rune, and have Ragnar running his paces
in our ultra-detailed levels.  We showed a cave sequence with steam geysers, bubbling lakes
of boiling mud, jumping platforms that sunk into the mud based on Ragnar's weight and some
pretty satisfying combat with multitudes of Goblin warriors and the occasional TubeStriker
that wanted to eat you for lunch.  We also showed an updated version of Thorstadt (not 
'Orstaff' as one site reported), the city of the Dark Vikings that we first showed at GenCon.
It now has particle-based torch and fireplace flames as well as some really subtle and moody
sound effects. 

Overall, Rune is really coming together in ways we didn't dream of before.  We've added 
substantially to the Unreal technology base- particle animations, hierarchical skeletal
animations, dynamic level of detailing, large mover handling and significant fixes to the
Unreal Editor that we will easily stay competative by the time we come out.  Plus the 
guys at Epic keep cranking out the improvements to the base technology, which has allowed
us to really focus on how to put this great game tech into real game design.  We want Rune
to really rock, and I think were really able to show off our potential for the first time to
the world.

The ECTS demo wouldn't have been possible, however, without the timely assistance of the gang
down at The Playing Fields, an ultra-cool LAN game play bar in the Tottenham Court area
of London.  If you are ever in London and itching to get some multiplayer action and a
pint of some of England's best- they're the place to be!  Thanks to the gang of The 
Playing Fields for the help and the free drinks on a hot Sunday afternoon in London.  

Thanks also go out to Brandon Reinhart, who saved our butts by offering the assistance of 
The Playing Fields, and for his coming to check us out at the right moment.  Thanks also to
Mark Rein who gave his time and laptop to the cause.  Mark, you look great in front of the 
purple Diablo.  That was my pick!
