Welcome to Human Head Studios' Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Tim Gerritsen
Email: tgerritsen@humanhead.com
Description: Business Development Director
Project: All
Web Page: Human Head Studios' Web SiteThis plan file is the opinion of the individual who writes it and does not reflect the opinions of the Human Head Studios.
Last Updated: 12/09/1999 13:29:24 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12/09/99

I just came back from a whirlwind trip to San Francisco, Los Angeles and Dallas to promote Rune and begin
the leg work on our next game.  The Computer Gaming World article was accurate.  We are indeed creating
a Blair Witch game for the Gathering.  Our game will be the second of a trilogy that we will release
details on soon.  Before we get flooded with mail about the merits of doing a game based on Blair Witch,
let me first say that you should all wait and see what we come up with.  The Human Head Blair Witch game
will focus on gameplay first and foremost, and we have some scarey goodness cooked up that will most
definitely make it one hell of an experience.  We'll have an 'official announcement' on our website soon
and will let everyone know more about the details as we get further into production.

In other news, we are seriously looking at the Rune and Mac ports for Rune.  I can't guarantee that we are
going to do them, but we are in discussions with some pretty good groups about having them do these
versions for us.  We simply don't have the internal bandwidth to perform the conversions ourselves, so we
are doing our best to pick the most capable group we can find.  If we can make the numbers work we will
do everything we can to get Rune out to these platforms.  

As for more about Rune, its gameplay, and new screenshots, keep watching.  We will be releasing new shots
soon, but we want to give the print magazines a chance to run some stuff we haven't shown before.  Be on
the look out for some of the upcoming great articles that will appear in the major print mags soon.  We
hope to have some other Rune related announcements soon as the results of our trip to the West Coast begin
to bear fruit.  