Name: Tim Gerritsen
Email: tgerritsen@humanhead.com
Description: Business Development Director
Project: All
Web Page: <a href="http://www.humanhead.com">Human Head Studios' Web Site</a><h5>This plan file is the opinion of the individual who writes it and does not reflect the opinions of the Human Head Studios.</h5>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12/21/99

Things are busy over at the head as we lead into the holiday season.  I and a few other heads are taking
a much needed break over the holidays as we go on some short vacations.  Alas, no wonderful exotic locations
for me, just catching up on some work at home and preparing the final exam for the part-time class I teach in Digital Video.

There was a great discussion recently over at Evil Avatar's site on the topic of piracy and it was interesting
how many gamers came to the conclusion that piracy does hurt us developers.  It was great to see, though I am
sure the number of pirates out there will always outnumber the paying customers.  People think developers just
sit around on great gobs of money and that sales of the final product don't matter.  They forget that developers
are usually just a dedicated group of people making far less money than you would think and hoping that their game will catch on enough to sell well.  Developers make money based on the numbers of units sold, and when games are distributed by piracy or warez sites, it robs the developer of a royalty for each unit that didn't get bought. 
Developers don't set the price of software, or (usually) have power over how a game is distributed or marketed. 
Publishers control that end of things.  This is what we do for a living, and it is what we pay our people with so
that they can pay their rent and buy their food and clothing, so remember that next time a friend offers you a copy
of that hot new game you wanted.

Enough soapboxing, on to the latest news-

Rune is coming along very well.  We are refining the combat portion of the game so that it becomes the well-oiled
system we wanted it to be.  The level designers are pumping out the most amazing visual designs, and we are all very
excited about how the game is coming.

We hope to have several new announcements about Rune and its development in the coming new year, so check back soon.

Have a great holiday season everyone and if the world doesn't blow up with the end of the millenium, we should all be back at work and cranking hard on Rune.