Login: brennan        			Name: Brennan Underwood
Project:
Why, none other than architect and head such-and-such for Winamp 3.0.
Codename Wasabi. Why this fails to get me all the chicks I'll never know.

Plan:
19-Aug-2000 4:40 PM

2 days later and more of the same. Except I can actually close my jaws now.
That's nice. On the other hand, part of my lip is still numb due to possible
nerve damage during surgery. That's not so nice.

I have managed to get some work done on the laptop, though. Some old
design decisions that made sense at the time but then were never updated
as outside concerns prevailed are now getting cleaned up. All of which
will make life easier on the component writer.

By the way, my entire life has been stalled by this tooth thing. Sorry.
I am usually slow to respond (if I ever do :) to emails anyway, and this week
everything is just halted.

Someone recently emailed asking about support for the blind in Winamp 3.
Don't worry, it's very important to me that it be as usable by the blind
as Winamp 2.x was, if not more. That means key bindings, nonmodal
interfaces, things like that. I'm even trying to avoid colorblindness
issues (there are probably some anyway; I can't control what people do with
skins.)

I haven't yet looked into hooking into the screen reader type stuff yet,
but it's on my to-do list for 3.1. Heck, maybe we'll provide enough hooks
for someone to write a native reader component.

At some point me and Francis intend to mess around with the
public speech recognition packages out there and write an interface
from one of them to the script system. Which would be cool for everyone,
of course.

"Computer!"
"Bee-do-boop!"
"New playlist. Add music, artist DMX Krew. Randomize. Play."

OK, so I doubt public speech recognition is up to this yet, but we'll see. :)

p.s. www.monkeyradio.net


----------------------------------------------------------------------


17-Aug-2000 3:50 PM

Gawd, my face hurts. I had my wisdom teeth out this past Tuesday. Healing
seems to be taking much longer than I anticipated. So... lots of soup,
drugs, and almost no work getting done. :( Oh well, at least I can plan
what I'll do when I get back.