Login: brennan        			Name: Brennan Underwood
Project:
Why, none other than architect and head such-and-such for Winamp 3.0.
Codename Wasabi. Why this fails to get me all the chicks I'll never know.

Plan:
30-Aug-2000 6:57 AM

Whew, a marathon, 16-hour coding session comes to a close. Winamp3's
usability is growing by leaps and bounds. I love working on the top-level
interface/usability stuff. It's so much more instantly gratifying than
low-level architecture stuff. Not that I'm not busting butt to finalize
that too, 'cause I am. In fact my "Retarded Code To Fix Before Anyone
Sees It" list is getting nice and short.

I'm sincerely hoping we will get the private beta out in just a couple of
weeks. We'll see. I especially want to get copies to our Forum Moderators,
who are all wonderfully patient people, I'm told. ;) Please don't kill me
if I have to push the date back a few times. And don't worry if you didn't
make the beta list. We all know some hoser is going to share his copy
"accidentally" on gnutella or something. Although AOL will probably sue
them if they do, 'cause they would be violating their NDA. At least it
would prove gnutella is about file swapping in general, not just mp3/porn
swapping.

Can it be piracy if it's free software? I dunno. All I know is, this is
the big push at the end where everything comes together. Bear with us.
We think you'll like what we're making for you.


28-Aug-2000 1:41 PM

Yeah, that inside.com story was pretty interesting. People are finally
noticing that you never hear from us any more.


22-Aug-2000 5:30 PM

Ah, glorious! I recently declared by fiat (under cover of "asking") that the
Winamp 3 client team works from home Monday through Wednesday.

I am now getting my home office set up and it is great! Well, having to use
VPN kinda sucks, but that's getting fixed. I have Monkey Radio coming in on my
big fat speakers in the living room, the whole house is open and being invaded
with fresh air, there's no one else here to distract me, and I just wandered
across the street to buy a pint of ice cream...

Ahhh... this is MY Nullsoft.


19-Aug-2000 4:40 PM

2 days later and more of the same. Except I can actually close my jaws now.
That's nice. On the other hand, part of my lip is still numb due to possible
nerve damage during surgery. That's not so nice.

I have managed to get some work done on the laptop, though. Some old
design decisions that made sense at the time but then were never updated
as outside concerns prevailed are now getting cleaned up. All of which
will make life easier on the component writer.

By the way, my entire life has been stalled by this tooth thing. Sorry.
I am usually slow to respond (if I ever do :) to emails anyway, and this week
everything is just halted.

Someone recently emailed asking about support for the blind in Winamp 3.
Don't worry, it's very important to me that it be as usable by the blind
as Winamp 2.x was, if not more. That means key bindings, nonmodal
interfaces, things like that. I'm even trying to avoid colorblindness
issues (there are probably some anyway; I can't control what people do with
skins.)

I haven't yet looked into hooking into the screen reader type stuff yet,
but it's on my to-do list for 3.1. Heck, maybe we'll provide enough hooks
for someone to write a native reader component.

At some point me and Francis intend to mess around with the
public speech recognition packages out there and write an interface
from one of them to the script system. Which would be cool for everyone,
of course.

"Computer!"
"Bee-do-boop!"
"New playlist. Add music, artist DMX Krew. Randomize. Play."

OK, so I doubt public speech recognition is up to this yet, but we'll see. :)

p.s. www.monkeyradio.net


----------------------------------------------------------------------


17-Aug-2000 3:50 PM

Gawd, my face hurts. I had my wisdom teeth out this past Tuesday. Healing
seems to be taking much longer than I anticipated. So... lots of soup,
drugs, and almost no work getting done. :( Oh well, at least I can plan
what I'll do when I get back.


