Login: brennan        			Name: Brennan Underwood
Project:
Why, none other than architect and head such-and-such for Winamp 3.0.
Codename Wasabi. Why this fails to get me all the chicks I'll never know.

Plan:
05-Dec-2000 1:50 PM

Wow, a .plan update.

- Going out is expensive. But worth it.

- Sorry about the erraticism of the reports to NSDN. There should be another
one next week.

- Yes, ML stands for 'media library'.

- Where is Winamp 3? Fuck if I know. At this point we've been stalled so
much I'm back in "it's done when it's done" mode. On the other hand, this
time has been invaluable for me to mature the interfaces.

- Got my new Ricochet modem. Supposedly 128kbit. I get maybe 30. Oh well.
Does anyone else schedule fedex/webvan/kozmo deliveries as a waking up
device? I find webvan to be the most reliable in timing.

- Someday we'll have bugzilla fully up & running. Today is not that day.

- Damn you Kozmo! $1.99 delivery charge, my ass! I alone should be making
you profitable enough, what with my constantly running up late fees. That's
pure profit.

- Microsoft importing Winamp skins, huh? Well, I assume they're already
aware that they're fucking lame-ass lamo fucks, so I needn't mention it here.


09-Oct-2000 12:37 AM

Wow. If you want to know what it would have been like to play Madworld,
my 3d game I attempted to make while finishing my CS degree, watch
the opening segment of Cowboy Bebop Episode 20... wow... it blew me
away to see that. *sob*... well, I guess Winamp 3 is a pretty sexy fallback
project but... I gotta get that OpenGL port done. Sheet. If you want to
see how the thing was looking back in 1998 on a P133 w/ Voodoo1, look
here: http://www.cockos.com/~brennan/pix/?dir=Madworld_Imagery


04-Oct-2000 5:47 PM

Here's what's up.

- My birthday party was quite a success. Check out www.pimpin2000.org for
pics. Sadly, the party was somewhat underdocumented compared to what went
on, but you'll get some of the flavor. The aftertaste anyway.

- Winamp 3's public beta is being pushed back for a multitude of reasons.
One is to wait for some licensing to be completed. Another is to let us
have time to communicate with AOL and Netscape's various departments to
coordinate the launch, and yet another is to allow Justin time to finalize
Winamp 2.666, so you 2.x diehards will have one last superduper version to
hang onto until Winamp 3 wins your hearts.

So since we've got a bit more time to kill :), we're going to spend it
packing Winamp 3 with yet more wads of gooey goodness, including the
scripting language which was originally scheduled for 3.1.
In fact I'm going to try to fit all the 3.1 features into 3.0 now, if only
to embarrass the Sonique guys as much as possible. ;) I suppose I should
start in on a 3.14 feature list now just to be safe. :)

So anyway, my current best guess for a private/public beta is now
mid-November, with a "launch" (read: party ;) in December. Don't worry,
you'll have it in plenty of time for Christmas.

Gawd, when did I start using :)'s? I'm going soft.


14-Sep-2000 6:49 AM

The rumors are true. My birthday party forthcomes. Details will become
less sparse in the coming weeks.


11-Sep-2000 3:48 AM

Wow, it was only about 1 year and 1 month ago that I started working at
Nullsoft. I got my computer, stole a table from Spinner, sat down,
and created an empty project in MSVC called 'studio.' My, how it's grown
since then...

Winamp 3 is...

...a 100% from-scratch rewrite of Winamp. Everything in it or about it is
next-generation. Less than 1% of code from Winamp 2 has been imported to 3
(mostly some random win32 shell programming code etc.)

It features
  - A brand new core playback system by Justin
  - A brand new skinning system by Christophe
  - A brand new music database system by Francis
  - A brand new component-based plugin system architecture by yours truly
  - An evolved and refined user interface by Steve and me

...going to go into a private beta in a few weeks. This is not the beta
you may have signed up for, this one has to be kept to a (very) small number
of people due to software licensing restrictions.

...going to rock butt.

...not finished yet.

...never going to be truly "finished." Instead, it will steadily rock more
and more butt over time.

...about all I've thought about or worked on for the entire previous year
of my life (besides the binge drinking, trips to Vegas, bikini models, etc.),
and so it is very exciting and not a little scary to almost be able to
present it to you. I can't wait! I hope you like it.


05-Sep-2000 5:19 PM

Good morning!

Phun Winamp 3 Phact #1: Nitrane is going bye-bye. We are going to ship a
version of Fraunhofer's codec with Winamp 3 for MP3/MP2 playback. It might
end up being magically faster than the stock codec, too.

Phun Winamp 3 Phact #2: I just rewrote the shuffling. Then I spent about
half an hour with a notepad making tick marks making sure it played every
file in the playlist once before reshuffling. So if you can get it to
play the same song twice in a row or just come up too often, I'll give you
a cookie. I'm thinking of having a global shuffle option too, which makes
sure you haven't heard any one song in your library more than another,
even as you switch from playlist to playlist, given the songs in the current
playlist to choose from.

What else? Lots. But I'm going to go outside now. :)


30-Aug-2000 6:57 AM

Whew, a marathon, 16-hour coding session comes to a close. Winamp3's
usability is growing by leaps and bounds. I love working on the top-level
interface/usability stuff. It's so much more instantly gratifying than
low-level architecture stuff. Not that I'm not busting butt to finalize
that too, 'cause I am. In fact my "Retarded Code To Fix Before Anyone
Sees It" list is getting nice and short.

I'm sincerely hoping we will get the private beta out in just a couple of
weeks. We'll see. I especially want to get copies to our Forum Moderators,
who are all wonderfully patient people, I'm told. ;) Please don't kill me
if I have to push the date back a few times. And don't worry if you didn't
make the beta list. We all know some hoser is going to share his copy
"accidentally" on gnutella or something. Although AOL will probably sue
them if they do, 'cause they would be violating their NDA. At least it
would prove gnutella is about file swapping in general, not just mp3/porn
swapping.

Can it be piracy if it's free software? I dunno. All I know is, this is
the big push at the end where everything comes together. Bear with us.
We think you'll like what we're making for you.


28-Aug-2000 1:41 PM

Yeah, that inside.com story was pretty interesting. People are finally
noticing that you never hear from us any more.


22-Aug-2000 5:30 PM

Ah, glorious! I recently declared by fiat (under cover of "asking") that the
Winamp 3 client team works from home Monday through Wednesday.

I am now getting my home office set up and it is great! Well, having to use
VPN kinda sucks, but that's getting fixed. I have Monkey Radio coming in on my
big fat speakers in the living room, the whole house is open and being invaded
with fresh air, there's no one else here to distract me, and I just wandered
across the street to buy a pint of ice cream...

Ahhh... this is MY Nullsoft.


19-Aug-2000 4:40 PM

2 days later and more of the same. Except I can actually close my jaws now.
That's nice. On the other hand, part of my lip is still numb due to possible
nerve damage during surgery. That's not so nice.

I have managed to get some work done on the laptop, though. Some old
design decisions that made sense at the time but then were never updated
as outside concerns prevailed are now getting cleaned up. All of which
will make life easier on the component writer.

By the way, my entire life has been stalled by this tooth thing. Sorry.
I am usually slow to respond (if I ever do :) to emails anyway, and this week
everything is just halted.

Someone recently emailed asking about support for the blind in Winamp 3.
Don't worry, it's very important to me that it be as usable by the blind
as Winamp 2.x was, if not more. That means key bindings, nonmodal
interfaces, things like that. I'm even trying to avoid colorblindness
issues (there are probably some anyway; I can't control what people do with
skins.)

I haven't yet looked into hooking into the screen reader type stuff yet,
but it's on my to-do list for 3.1. Heck, maybe we'll provide enough hooks
for someone to write a native reader component.

At some point me and Francis intend to mess around with the
public speech recognition packages out there and write an interface
from one of them to the script system. Which would be cool for everyone,
of course.

"Computer!"
"Bee-do-boop!"
"New playlist. Add music, artist DMX Krew. Randomize. Play."

OK, so I doubt public speech recognition is up to this yet, but we'll see. :)

p.s. www.monkeyradio.net


----------------------------------------------------------------------


17-Aug-2000 3:50 PM

Gawd, my face hurts. I had my wisdom teeth out this past Tuesday. Healing
seems to be taking much longer than I anticipated. So... lots of soup,
drugs, and almost no work getting done. :( Oh well, at least I can plan
what I'll do when I get back.