Login: brennan        			Name: Brennan Underwood
Project:
Why, none other than architect and head such-and-such for Winamp 3.0.
Codename Wasabi. Why this fails to get me all the chicks I'll never know.

Plan:
08-Mar-2001 2:18 PM

Sigh.... still so, so much work to do. And realistically, only I can do it,
since it's all architectural stuff being finalized for the SDK. Which will rock.
We're way way past a single .h with comments at this point :)

And speaking of which, we are looking to hire another programmer onto the
team at this time. You need to be C++-ified and leet and stuff. This new person
will take over care and feeding of our SDK in addition to general coding on
WA3/AVS/etc.

This isn't an official job posting so much as a heads-up (the real post will
appear on winamp.com in a week or two) but you can send me
resumes/porn/candy now if you want.


20-Feb-2001 3:32 PM

I am at work. I am bored. I have been here since 8:30 AM. The people who
asked me to come in to meet with them are still meeting with each other.
I don't like being put off like this. I don't think I'm coming in for
meetings any more.

Plus, this shitty-ass Dell machine takes 8 hours to compile wa3. So I can't
even get any work done. Right now I just live to hit 'Refresh' and wait for
the new issue of The Onion to be posted.


14-Feb-2001 1:08 AM

Happy Valentine's Day: http://genghis.winamp.com/~brennan/wa3/

Thanks for the suggestions on finding that sound card, but none of them
have pointed me yet to a place that both sells it and has it in stock. So
I give up.


12-Feb-2001 6:18 AM

Well, I'm wasting all kinds of valuable time on improving the wa3 playlist
editor. Given the alpha status of the software, it's pretty silly to be
adding anything anywhere near polish to it, but what the hey.
After this next alpha though, I think I'm going to hold back on the fun
component programming stuff long enough to start putting together a pre-SDK
for component development so everyone else can have fun doing component
programming too.

As long as you don't mind recompiling along with each alpha you'll be cool.
If you don't want to do that, hold out for beta 1, which is when we'll be
freezing the interfaces and marking the SDK as version 1.0, or 0.1, or #1,
or something.

Anybody know where to buy the Guillemot Maxi Studio ISIS XL online? I can't
find it anywhere. I wish to make it the centerpiece of my little studio
setup.


08-Feb-2001 3:27 AM

- Last to check in as usual
- Didn't I just write one of these? Like last week?
- Playlist editor usability improvements
- Such as the esoteric "Add files" option
- I know, I know. Who uses that?
- Rearranged furniture more
- Cleared out floor space
- Combined 2 PCs worth of parts to make 1 uber PC that is almost totally
silent in operation.
- Banished big loud alienware machine to closet
- You can still kind of hear it
- Played with Reason demo, got excited
- Bye bye $399
- But to Propellerheads, which is like a sister Nullsoft, except without
the selling-out-to-alien-overlords part
- Played Star Wars Trivial Pursuit w/ ninja girl
- Started pretending to not know the answers so as to hide geekiness
last minute
- Didn't work
- The worst question was "How many shots were fired at the Millenium
Falcon when it left Cloud City?" Halfway through her followup joke of "Ok,
you can use a lifeline for that one" I answer "Three."
- Yes, I visualized it and counted
- She loves me anyway (!)


28-Jan-2001 11:42 PM

Woohoo! About three-quarters of a million downloads of the Winamp 3 alpha.

I'm just so happy it's OUT. We did it: we gave birth. And people are
actually *using* it?! Wow!


27-Jan-2001 12:15 PM

Good morning! Man, what a beautiful day.

Note: I got the bugzilla address wrong, it should be:
http://bugzilla.nullsoft.com:3430/

The winamp.com one doesn't work. OK, so go report some bugs!


26-Jan-2001 9:58 PM

Our poor little forums are dying as thousands of people click 'refresh' on
them constantly...


25-Jan-2001 1:54 AM

What to write... sucks that so many people got laid off. Nobody in Nullsoft
got the axe that I'm aware of, though. Not that there's any fat to cut.

We're pushing super hard to release an alpha-test of Winamp 3. We might have
made our deadline, too, if it hadn't been for those meddling kids. Bugs. Did
I say kids? Some bugs left still.

Why is this taking so long? Here's why: Winamp 3 is built on a platform.
That platform is called Wasabi. It is a platform for building players.
Winamp 3 is just an instance of Wasabi, really. (It also serves to help
define what APIs and services go into Wasabi.) Anyway, it takes a lot longer
to build a general platform and an app on top of it than just to make
the app. But it generally pays off big time. Re: Quake, Unreal,
3d Studio MAX.


17-Jan-2001 7:29 PM

Subject: RE: What have you been up to?
 
- Working
- Coding
- Drinking
- Eating
- Reading web comics
- Smoking (not really, mom)
- Missing ninja girl
- Kissing ninja girl
- Missing ninja girl again
- Actually started participating in the Winamp.com Forums
- Watched anime
- Went for a walk
- Talked to friend I haven't talked to in a year
- Lives are scarily parallel
- Between this guy and Tag, I don't need to read my horoscope to know what's upcoming
- Hmmm, Erin emailed me. Maybe she doesn't hate me any more
- Interviewing
- Opinion stating
- Opinion defending
- Opinion offending
- I like the Fillmore
- TMBG will play there on the 31st
- Dreaming about how I will have free time someday and the music I will make during it
- Gave amazon.com $300 in return for lots more CDs for Monkey Radio
- Re-reading "The Selfish Gene"
- Conserving power
- Bought stamps
- Paid bills
- Wrote this


12-Jan-2001 04:06 AM

Woo, I got the code flow going again. Drawing together lots of disparate
work I'd done into a coherent whole.

We're not kidding about putting out a preview of Winamp3 this month.
Probably within 3 weeks. ;) Watch this space. Let's be clear, tho: this
will be an alpha or a preview or a test release or whatever you want to
call it. We're not trying to say we've got full functionality or anything,
but we mostly just need to know the thing runs on hardware other than our
own. So I wouldn't call it a "beta". An "alpha test" seems more appropriate.

But now, to quote Groo, "It is time to sleep."


11-Jan-2001 10:33 AM

From: Brennan Underwood
Sent: 1/11/01 10:16 AM
Subject: RE: What have you been up to

- Worked on a bunch of internals stuff you'll never see. Unless you're a
component developer.
- Wondered why I waste time on making such pretty code when I could just
bang out something that would work 90% as good in half the time
- Eh, I suppose I'll thank me for it in 2002. If I still have a job.
- Got pissed off. Actually just annoyed. I miss Nullsoft '98.
- Missed overbooked flight to Vegas
- Attempted to simulate Vegas by drinking until I fell down
- Experienced sublime pleasure of someone caring enough about me to take
care of me until I was better
- Mental note: do not become too used to this
- Went to Vegas. Pronounced like Degas. Had to stopover in Phoenix.
Captain helpfully noted we were passing directly over Vegas on the way.
- Ate 2 doughnuts
- Some terrible stuffing too
- Lost a bunch a money
- Going back into blackjack training
- Flew back early. Also stopping over in Phoenix.
- Waited 3 hours in Phoenix for them to re-seal the cockpit windshield.
- Wondered if I should offer them some pre-chewed Big Red to use
instead.
- Read Maxim, felt manlier
- Started a journal, dumped out 6 unlined pages of tiny writing in an hour.
- Brain feels cleaner now.
- Moved one of my beds into the living room. Makes the living room super
cozy but now the bedroom feels empty. Maybe I'll put my couch in there
instead and make it a smoking lounge with 24/7 BlueMars.
- Tutored girl on making grilled cheese Brennan style.
- Got combination flower/spatula bouquet from ninja girl (who broke
previous spatula)
- Consumed Swanson's Hungry Man Chicken Dinner. Cause I was hungry, man.
- I think I will go to work today in my pajamas
- Decided to make this my .plan as well
- But I don't have SecureCRT on this box
- So fuck it

-----Original Message-----
From: Daniel Rubin [mailto:daniel@nullsoft.com]
Sent: Wednesday, January 10, 2001 5:31 PM
Subject: What have you been up to


Please tell all of amptech all of the luscious things
you have done with your life on earth in the last 7 days. Tell us all, all.


03-Jan-2001 8:45 PM

Yay, 2001. I'm pretty sure we will be able to get Winamp3 out some time
this year. Assuming Justin doesn't back-port everything into Winamp2, in
which case I can go home and get some rest.

Anyway, hopefully this month we'll be sneaking out an alpha-test to our
most devoted fans. Stay tuned. The alphas will fly fast and furious once
we get rolling.


05-Dec-2000 1:50 PM

Wow, a .plan update.

- Going out is expensive. But worth it.

- Sorry about the erraticism of the reports to NSDN. There should be another
one next week.

- Yes, ML stands for 'media library'.

- Where is Winamp 3? Fuck if I know. At this point we've been stalled so
much I'm back in "it's done when it's done" mode. On the other hand, this
time has been invaluable for me to mature the interfaces.

- Got my new Ricochet modem. Supposedly 128kbit. I get maybe 30. Oh well.
Does anyone else schedule fedex/webvan/kozmo deliveries as a waking up
device? I find webvan to be the most reliable in timing.

- Someday we'll have bugzilla fully up & running. Today is not that day.

- Damn you Kozmo! $1.99 delivery charge, my ass! I alone should be making
you profitable enough, what with my constantly running up late fees. That's
pure profit.

- Microsoft importing Winamp skins, huh? Well, I assume they're already
aware that they're fucking lame-ass lamo fucks, so I needn't mention it here.


09-Oct-2000 12:37 AM

Wow. If you want to know what it would have been like to play Madworld,
my 3d game I attempted to make while finishing my CS degree, watch
the opening segment of Cowboy Bebop Episode 20... wow... it blew me
away to see that. *sob*... well, I guess Winamp 3 is a pretty sexy fallback
project but... I gotta get that OpenGL port done. Sheet. If you want to
see how the thing was looking back in 1998 on a P133 w/ Voodoo1, look
here: http://www.cockos.com/~brennan/pix/?dir=Madworld_Imagery


04-Oct-2000 5:47 PM

Here's what's up.

- My birthday party was quite a success. Check out www.pimpin2000.org for
pics. Sadly, the party was somewhat underdocumented compared to what went
on, but you'll get some of the flavor. The aftertaste anyway.

- Winamp 3's public beta is being pushed back for a multitude of reasons.
One is to wait for some licensing to be completed. Another is to let us
have time to communicate with AOL and Netscape's various departments to
coordinate the launch, and yet another is to allow Justin time to finalize
Winamp 2.666, so you 2.x diehards will have one last superduper version to
hang onto until Winamp 3 wins your hearts.

So since we've got a bit more time to kill :), we're going to spend it
packing Winamp 3 with yet more wads of gooey goodness, including the
scripting language which was originally scheduled for 3.1.
In fact I'm going to try to fit all the 3.1 features into 3.0 now, if only
to embarrass the Sonique guys as much as possible. ;) I suppose I should
start in on a 3.14 feature list now just to be safe. :)

So anyway, my current best guess for a private/public beta is now
mid-November, with a "launch" (read: party ;) in December. Don't worry,
you'll have it in plenty of time for Christmas.

Gawd, when did I start using :)'s? I'm going soft.


14-Sep-2000 6:49 AM

The rumors are true. My birthday party forthcomes. Details will become
less sparse in the coming weeks.


11-Sep-2000 3:48 AM

Wow, it was only about 1 year and 1 month ago that I started working at
Nullsoft. I got my computer, stole a table from Spinner, sat down,
and created an empty project in MSVC called 'studio.' My, how it's grown
since then...

Winamp 3 is...

...a 100% from-scratch rewrite of Winamp. Everything in it or about it is
next-generation. Less than 1% of code from Winamp 2 has been imported to 3
(mostly some random win32 shell programming code etc.)

It features
  - A brand new core playback system by Justin
  - A brand new skinning system by Christophe
  - A brand new music database system by Francis
  - A brand new component-based plugin system architecture by yours truly
  - An evolved and refined user interface by Steve and me

...going to go into a private beta in a few weeks. This is not the beta
you may have signed up for, this one has to be kept to a (very) small number
of people due to software licensing restrictions.

...going to rock butt.

...not finished yet.

...never going to be truly "finished." Instead, it will steadily rock more
and more butt over time.

...about all I've thought about or worked on for the entire previous year
of my life (besides the binge drinking, trips to Vegas, bikini models, etc.),
and so it is very exciting and not a little scary to almost be able to
present it to you. I can't wait! I hope you like it.


05-Sep-2000 5:19 PM

Good morning!

Phun Winamp 3 Phact #1: Nitrane is going bye-bye. We are going to ship a
version of Fraunhofer's codec with Winamp 3 for MP3/MP2 playback. It might
end up being magically faster than the stock codec, too.

Phun Winamp 3 Phact #2: I just rewrote the shuffling. Then I spent about
half an hour with a notepad making tick marks making sure it played every
file in the playlist once before reshuffling. So if you can get it to
play the same song twice in a row or just come up too often, I'll give you
a cookie. I'm thinking of having a global shuffle option too, which makes
sure you haven't heard any one song in your library more than another,
even as you switch from playlist to playlist, given the songs in the current
playlist to choose from.

What else? Lots. But I'm going to go outside now. :)


30-Aug-2000 6:57 AM

Whew, a marathon, 16-hour coding session comes to a close. Winamp3's
usability is growing by leaps and bounds. I love working on the top-level
interface/usability stuff. It's so much more instantly gratifying than
low-level architecture stuff. Not that I'm not busting butt to finalize
that too, 'cause I am. In fact my "Retarded Code To Fix Before Anyone
Sees It" list is getting nice and short.

I'm sincerely hoping we will get the private beta out in just a couple of
weeks. We'll see. I especially want to get copies to our Forum Moderators,
who are all wonderfully patient people, I'm told. ;) Please don't kill me
if I have to push the date back a few times. And don't worry if you didn't
make the beta list. We all know some hoser is going to share his copy
"accidentally" on gnutella or something. Although AOL will probably sue
them if they do, 'cause they would be violating their NDA. At least it
would prove gnutella is about file swapping in general, not just mp3/porn
swapping.

Can it be piracy if it's free software? I dunno. All I know is, this is
the big push at the end where everything comes together. Bear with us.
We think you'll like what we're making for you.


28-Aug-2000 1:41 PM

Yeah, that inside.com story was pretty interesting. People are finally
noticing that you never hear from us any more.


22-Aug-2000 5:30 PM

Ah, glorious! I recently declared by fiat (under cover of "asking") that the
Winamp 3 client team works from home Monday through Wednesday.

I am now getting my home office set up and it is great! Well, having to use
VPN kinda sucks, but that's getting fixed. I have Monkey Radio coming in on my
big fat speakers in the living room, the whole house is open and being invaded
with fresh air, there's no one else here to distract me, and I just wandered
across the street to buy a pint of ice cream...

Ahhh... this is MY Nullsoft.


19-Aug-2000 4:40 PM

2 days later and more of the same. Except I can actually close my jaws now.
That's nice. On the other hand, part of my lip is still numb due to possible
nerve damage during surgery. That's not so nice.

I have managed to get some work done on the laptop, though. Some old
design decisions that made sense at the time but then were never updated
as outside concerns prevailed are now getting cleaned up. All of which
will make life easier on the component writer.

By the way, my entire life has been stalled by this tooth thing. Sorry.
I am usually slow to respond (if I ever do :) to emails anyway, and this week
everything is just halted.

Someone recently emailed asking about support for the blind in Winamp 3.
Don't worry, it's very important to me that it be as usable by the blind
as Winamp 2.x was, if not more. That means key bindings, nonmodal
interfaces, things like that. I'm even trying to avoid colorblindness
issues (there are probably some anyway; I can't control what people do with
skins.)

I haven't yet looked into hooking into the screen reader type stuff yet,
but it's on my to-do list for 3.1. Heck, maybe we'll provide enough hooks
for someone to write a native reader component.

At some point me and Francis intend to mess around with the
public speech recognition packages out there and write an interface
from one of them to the script system. Which would be cool for everyone,
of course.

"Computer!"
"Bee-do-boop!"
"New playlist. Add music, artist DMX Krew. Randomize. Play."

OK, so I doubt public speech recognition is up to this yet, but we'll see. :)

p.s. www.monkeyradio.net


----------------------------------------------------------------------


17-Aug-2000 3:50 PM

Gawd, my face hurts. I had my wisdom teeth out this past Tuesday. Healing
seems to be taking much longer than I anticipated. So... lots of soup,
drugs, and almost no work getting done. :( Oh well, at least I can plan
what I'll do when I get back.


