Username: samuli                    In real life: Samuli Syvahuoko      


Plan:
Finger info for:

Samuli Syvahuoko


[ Fri Jan 23 01:59:14 1998 ] 

I just saw Titanic. I didn't really expect too much from it, 
except for some cool effects (I mean, hello, it's the most 
expensive movie ever made!). I really didn't think there 
would be much more to it. 

The last really good love story that I saw was Ghost, and 
that must have been something like 7 years ago. But Titanic 
took me completely by surprise. It's not only the best love 
story that I've seen, but it's also the best any kind of 
movie that I've ever seen! 

What's interesting is that my previous "best ever" movie 
was T2, which was directed by James Cameron, the same guy 
who also directed Titanic. I can't quite pin it down, but 
there's just something perfect in the way how Cameron sees 
a movie in its entirety. It was already apparent in T2. 
Okay, T2 was mostly effects and humorous bad-ass attitude, 
but the plot and how the movie went forward from start to 
finish was just so perfect. He can also portay pain and 
strong human emotions in a unique and _very_ convincing 
way. He's the kind of director who was made to create 
movies that revolve around a catastrophe. He may be 
spending much more cash on making his movies than anyone 
else, but the good thing is that he's not wasting the 
money. He's only using the money to bring a more believable 
and dramatic experience to the audience. And that's exactly 
as it should be. 

Even though Titanic is 3 hours and 10 minutes long, I 
recommend it highly. The story can't really be told in less 
time, if it's to make the kind of deep impression that it 
did (at least to me). 

Oh, and just for the record, right after Titanic and T2, 
Fifth Element is the third best movie in my book. Number 
four, though, is very hard to say. No one movie can really 
take that slot. 

------------------------------------------------------------ 
[ Fri Jan 2 09:12:14 1998 ]

1997 is now in the past and what a year it was! I want to
take this opportunity to do some aftermath...


During 1997 Remedy grew and matured a lot as a game
developer and as a company in general. In Remedy's 2,5
years of existence the past year has, without doubt, been
the best yet.

Our fruitful co-operation with Apogee/3D Realms continued
in the form of Max Payne - a game that will bring new and
fresh elements to the monotonous 3D action genre.

Max is a huge project. At the moment we have 14 people in
the team and the total development time will probably end
up being nearly two years. But this is what it takes if
you want to make a game that has enough quality content
and genre-busting features to become a hit. And I'm not
talking about a small hit here. This time we're aiming
straight to the very top. And after you've read this
further, I'm quite sure you won't think our goal is
unrealistic.

The development of Max has proceeded very well and all of
us here and over at Apogee/3D Realms are obviously very
excited. It's great to develop Max alongside a company
like 3D Realms. Our two companies have the same kind of
"chemistry" which makes working together easy and fun.

3D Realms makes games with a great philosophy: "It's done
when it's ready". What this actually means is that a game
will not be released before both companies strongly feel
that the game's going to be a winner. This is a luxury
most developers don't have. If you're working with a big
publisher, they need to know when a title is going to be
ready before any real development is done. Most of them
are reluctant to give more time for gameplay finetuning
or the field-testing of new ideas which are without doubt
the most important elements in making a game. They tend
to trust in their marketing department more than in the
game's playability. Well, we like to think the other way
round.

A successful game needs to be built on top of the best
visual technology in order to be noticed. That's just
how it is nowadays in the middle of all the 3D technology
fuss. The game that looks best also interests gamers who
want to see what their new 3D card can do when pushed to
the limit. But envelope pushing technology is only the
other side of the coin. New and innovative content and
great playability are even more important. Or why do you
think Duke has sold more than Quake? While Quake was the
coolest piece of technology of its time, it lacked a lot
in single-player gameplay. Duke, on the other hand, had
a revolutionary gameplay in a carefully thought-out,
functional and believable environment. That's why.

With this kind of thinking in our backbone, you can be
sure that we'll do everything we can to produce a game
that's fun to play.


1997 was also the year when we were contacted by VNU
European Labs and asked to create a 3D benchmark. And as
VNU is one of the largest computer business magazine
publishers in Europe, they guaranteed a distribution of
about 600.000 copies on magazine cover CDs. This sounded
like a great opportunity to get lots of media coverage
for our 3D technology and we signed the deal with VNU.

From this Final Reality was born. During the development
we got great contacts to all major processor and 3D card
manufacturers. This is naturally important as there are
dozens of different 3D cards out there and Final Reality
has to work with all of them. This also makes our 3D
engine, which is the basis of all our products, more
compatible. This in turn means that when Max Payne comes
out, it will work well with all major 3D cards.

Final Reality, or FR in short, has a unique way of
presenting its tests - it's actually fun to watch and
listen to! It's simply unlike any other 3D benchmark that
has ever been created. It's mainly aimed at gamers who
want to see something that resembles a real-life gaming
situation, but it can also be used as a generic Direct3D
performance and quality testing tool. FR is also easy-
to-use and outputs easy-to-understand results.

What would be a better way to promote a 3D card than
having an unbiased test program showing what the card
can do in a fun way? This is why it was no wonder that
many major 3D card manufacturers wanted to bundle FR with
their hardware. This was obviously okay with us as FR's
distribution will now be more than 5 million copies!

But FR was only the beginning. The sales of 3D cards are
rocketing and the need for a proper 3D benchmark that is
always up-to-date with the newest hardware is obvious.
But as Remedy is a game developer first and foremost and
wants to focus all its energy into creating unique genre-
busting games, a new company that would take control of
benchmark development was founded. After months of
careful planning, organizing and recruiting, the new
company will finally come "on-line" next week and operate
in the same office with Remedy.

It will be run by Aki Jarvilehto who was prior to this
employed as a successful consultant at Arthur Andersen
Business Consulting. I could go on forever, but I'm sure
Aki will make sure all of you will know more about this
new and exciting operation very soon.


As mentioned before, we're moving to a new office. The
moving hassle itself will begin today and hopefully be
over during the coming weekend.

But why move? Well, we need more space and a proper
environment for our people. Although this place has
served us well, we've really started to run out of
proper working space. The new office with much more
room and a more efficient room layout will ensure that
our people can concentrate on their work much better
which in turn leads to better quality and productivity.
And what would motivate more than a job well done!


To sum it up, the beginning of 1998 marks a new era in
the company's history. We've switched onto a higher gear
in order to compete in this tough but ever-so-inspiring
industry. I'm proud of the people we have and I'm sure
that with their talent there are very few things that
can stop us from reaching our goals.


With Best Wishes for a Great New Year,


Samuli Syvahuoko
managing director


------------------------------------------------------------ 
[ Tue Nov 25 10:12:26 1997 ]

This is my first .plan entry - a historic moment,
so to speak. :)

I've been craving for a channel like this for a while,
and now that we have it, I'll use it to bring you people
some behind the scenes info on what's happening here at
Remedy.

The first thing I'd like to mention is that we've been
looking for a new office for the last two months. The
current office is simply too small for our people. We
checked out 28 different office spaces with sizes
ranging from 350 to 540 square meters. Lots of choices,
but fortunately, the decision was quite easy in the end.
We chose a 412 square meter office in Niittykumpu in
Espoo. We'll be moving in 1st of January (after some
major renovations). After that, we'll put some screen
shots of the new place on

And here's a nice link to all you people who are
interested in game development:
http://www.gamasutra.com

This pretty much concludes my first .plan entry. But
there's much more to come, so check back often!


------------------------------------------------------------ 

Samuli Syvahuoko is the managing director of Remedy
Entertainment, Ltd., a leading developer of 3D action
games for the PC platform.


Check out the following web sites for more information:

        www.remedy-ent.com (foreign visitors)
        www.remedy.fi      (finnish visitors)