Username: samuli                    In real life: Samuli Syvahuoko      


Plan:
[ Wed Aug 26 18:07:00 1998 ]

It seems like there is a common misconception about the link 
between Remedy Entertainment and the old demo group Future 
Crew. In order for the credit to go to the right people, I 
want to set the record straight. 

In a nut shell, Remedy is *not* Future Crew.

There are only four members of the original FC working at 
Remedy, and considering that we currently have 18 people 
working here in total, it's safe to say that Remedy and 
Future Crew have very little to do with each other.

So, in other words, Max Payne is not being made by Future
Crew, but a different team that comprises of highly talented
individuals who come from various kinds of backgrounds and 
who, together, are what define Remedy.


------------------------------------------------------------ 
[ Thu Aug 13 01:25:00 1998 ]

Greetings to all you fine people out there!

As some of you know, Remedy founded a subsidiary company
called Futuremark nine months ago to fully focus on 3D
benchmarks. We did this because Final Reality was such an
unbelievably huge hit (so far over 7 million copies of it
have been distributed via bundles, making Final Reality one
of the biggest software bundle deals ever in the industry).

Futuremark has been working on its first own 3D benchmark
called "3DMark" for some time now. It's fully based on
Remedy's in-house developed technology. Yes, that's right,
the same technology that made the press go nuts at E3. Think
of 3DMark as a technology show-off demo about Max Payne's
technology, because that's exactly what it is. Ok, it's not
JUST a technology demo, but also the world's first ever true
Gamers' Benchmark. Why Gamers'? Well, because it's fully
based on a game!

Think of 3DMark as a snapshot of some of the technology we
have developed to be used in Max Payne.

So, if you've been wondering about what do the particle
effects etc. look like, and you weren't in the E3 back room
on the GoD booth, now you're about to see with your own
eyes. This should give you a good idea about the tech stuff
that will be in Max Payne when it comes out (well, by then
we've obviously developed our technology even further).

3DMark is coming out within two months and when it does,
make sure you get a copy of it!

For all 3DMark and Futuremark news, keep checking

HTTP://WWW.FUTUREMARKCORP.COM


------------------------------------------------------------ 
[ Sun May 17 02:10:00 1998 ]

E3 is right behind the corner and practically all of the
established game developers of the world are gearing up for
it. So are we.

There will again be lots and lots of jaw-droppingly amazing
titles on show from already established developers and also
newer setups like ourselves.

Again, we'll be seeing lots of me-too clones, but also games
with a much more original approach that are able to create
new sub-genres into the already established genres.

1st and 3rd person shooters are advancing at a really fast
pace, but the development can mostly be seen in better
looking visuals rather than in the development of the story
line, characters or gameplay depth. This is totally under-
standable as the technology is advancing so fast. However,
this can also have the unfortunate side-effect on some
developers that they spend most of their time just focusing
on visual technology. This might stray them away from the
*real* thing which is the game itself. Get where I'm going
with this... ? ;)

Anyhow, to make the point clear, we've not made compromises
in Max Payne in regard to visual technology versus "the
game". Our plan is to have both in the extreme (which should
be great news to any serious gamer out there). It might not
be an easy thing to pull off, but when you have 15 highly
talented and motivated people, who suffer from an extremely
serious case of forbearance and stubborness (very common
here in Finland), and who are all working long days on a
common goal, you're bound to succeed.

Anyhow, we've been working on Max Payne for more than a year
now. And during all this time all the "physical evidence"
that we've given out are a dozen screen shots, which, just
by themselves, have caused quite a stir already. But trust
me when I say this; the screen shots don't do Max justice,
and you're hereby invited to come and check out what I mean
(if you're going to be at E3, that is).

Oh, and I can't yet reveal on which booth we'll be present,
but if you've been following up on the news during the last
couple of months, you should have a pretty good idea. ;)

------------------------------------------------------------ 

Samuli Syvahuoko is the managing director of Remedy
Entertainment, Ltd., a leading developer of 3D action
games for the PC platform.

Check out the following web sites for more information:

http://www.remedy-ent.com     (foreign visitors)
http://www.remedy.fi          (finnish visitors)
http://www.maxpayne.com
http://www.futuremarkcorp.com
http://www.3dmark.com