Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Scott McNutt
Email: smcnutt@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 04/16/1999 18:47:42 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4-16-99

Something I learned today...

Do not @#%# with the programmers.

-pork chop



4-13-99

Interesting story...

Greg Barr, fellow designer on Soldier of Fortune, was a bit reluctant to share this. And because
he did, I will share it with all.

In one of his dreams last night he dreamed that he was taking a shower in the rocket room in 
Quake's DM3. He also claims that is was discrete and that there were curtains up. But I think he
is just trying to mention that he has some kind of decency left in him. I guess those years of late night 
DeathMatching is finally taking a toll on his subliminal thoughts.

A true Quake junkie.

-pork chop






3-5-99

More Soldier of Fortune in print!!!

Be sure and snag April's issue of PC Accelerator magazine and flip straight to page 30
for a cool article on Soldier of Fortune and a few new screenshots!

-pork chop





2-24-99

Continuing the Soldier of Fortune week, Gamelinks.net has an interesting interview with me.

There is also an article about Soldier of Fortune in April '99 issue of Computer Gaming World. Be sure
and check out page 84 for a few screenshots and a cool article!

-pork chop






2-22-99

Gamelinks.net is hosting "Soldier of Fortune Week," beginning today and running 
through Friday, February 26th, 1999.  

There will be cool stuff going on each day this week. Today there are a couple of newly
released screenshots and a great interview with our Project Administrator, Kenn Hoekstra.

There is also a give away for 2 copies of Soldier of Fortune.

Be sure and visit each day this week for some cool info on Soldier of Fortune!

-pork chop






2-8-99

Here are a couple of cool www sites to visit!

First...

Head over to GameForum.com and visit the Soldier of Fortune message boards and 
leave a message. We here working on Soldier of Fortune will visit the message boards and 
try and reply when we can peel ourselves from our duties creating Soldier of Fortune!



And then visit...

Here is a cool review site for Heretic 2 maps. It is
the Realms of Parthoris and
is worth a visit. They reviewed the 4 level DeathMatch pack we here 
at Raven Software released a little while ago. And is worthy of a look!



-pork chop









2-5-99

Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in 
the process he does not become a monster.

And when you look into an abyss, the abyss also looks into you.

-Friedrich Nietzsche








1-6-98


Funny story...


Monday Greg Barr and I braved a trip to the mall for lunch. On the way there we took the long 
route. Only the streets and the parking lots were shoveled. There are some 10-15 feet high piles 
of shoveled snow in the parking lots at the mall. On the way back to work from eating, we decided 
to take the short cut route by cutting behind Best Buy. There is a small patch of foliage between 
Best Buy and the buildings on the Raven side. This is the normal way we go when there is no snow. 
So we scan out a good place to cross. I tell Greg, step where I step. One step, 2 steps, 3rd step 
I am up to my chest in snow! Down I went!!! It was a riot. I was stuck!!! I turn around 
(laughing all the way) and reach out for Greg's outstretched hand. He pulls me out. We are having 
a real good laugh. After he rescued me we thought we would have to go the long way back to work. 
Only to find some tracks across the foliage some 15 feet from where we almost lost me. And crossed 
into asphalt safely. After thinking about it, we realized that where I was up to my chest in snow 
there is a drainage ditch there.












12-28-98


I was out braving the Heretic 2 servers over the weekend and 
would like to say hello to my fellow DeathMatchers that were roughing me up. 
They are Shaman, Sir Dog, Thug, Melevelant and Spyre. 

As a cool coincidence, Spyre is the webmaster of the first 
Soldier of Fortune site. (the project I am working on) It can be found at...

Soldier of Fortune Game Site

...and is worth a visit. So check up on some cool Soldier of Fortune news.

Until next time...

-Pork Chop






12-21-98

Greetings to all...

I was hitting the Heretic 2 servers from home over the weekend to play the DM maps 
that were released on Friday. There are some really good Heretic 2 
DMers out there. The maps are real cool to play. And well recieved. 
Even tho I am missing out on 1/2 the glory playing in software mode. 
I know, I should get a decent video card for my box at home.

I would like to say HI to the fellow DMers who were roughing me up,
They are Trix, Dark, Bitch, Kuebler and PoopyPants. You guys were 
really fun to play, err get slaughtered against.

So if you see someone prowling the servers as Pork Chop (a member of 
the mEat wAgon) it is me and show no mercy, I sure will not.

-scott





12-18-98

We here have been busy working on the Enhancement Pack for Heretic 2 and just 
released some cool screenshots of the DeathMatch levels that will be included 
in the Enhancement Pack. Here is 
a nifty screenshot of the level I made. It is called Blood Feud. And it ROCKS!!!

-scott





12-16-98


For those who know about Ultraman, I have set up an Ultraman Collectibles site 
of some cool Ultraman stuff that I have. Take a look at my...

Ultraman Collectibles Page

...for some cool Ultraman items. If you have any Ultraman goodies you want to get off of your hands,
email me at smcnutt@mail.ravensoft.com and we can talk!