September 15, 2000
====
Plan file?  What's that?

Well, I managed to find it again, but I'm not here to write a major update.  I'm here mostly to point any interested parties to the article I just posted on the WoT.com site: the Story Behind WoT.  It gives my perspective on the events leading up to the development of the game, and I think it's an interesting read.  Check it out at http://www.wheeloftime.com/story/main.html and let me know what you think at gdahlgren@legendent.com.

Thought for the day: Stay tuned.  I'm bound to have some thoughts to post here sometime soon.

June 21  23:00
====
Time for my periodical plan update, I'm thinking.  It's not quite as regular as the Monday development update--in fact, it's not regular at all.  It seems that some event has to happen to push me into writing here.  So be it.

What is the event this time?  Well, it hasn't quite happened yet, but it is imminent.  Sabrina, my wonderful Italian fiancee, the love of my life, arrives here Thursday afternoon.  She's not visiting this time; she's here for the long haul.  Finally.

We've been fighting for this moment ever since we met in Cancun almost two years ago (those who remember my web page update when I left on vacation, give yourself an official WoT Slap on the Back).  We've tussled with the INS.  We've tangled with the Catholic church.  And we're not quite done yet.

Our plan is to get married not once, not twice, but three times (just in case the first two don't take).  The first is probably going to be a fun yet tacky affair, perhaps even in Vegas (although not by an Elvis impersonator).  We're going to do this as soon as possible so that we can file the change of status forms and get the paperwork processing for an advance parole.  

You see, under a fiancee Visa, the INS has ruled that Sabrina isn't allowed to leave the country (if she does, she's not allowed back in), and yet she has planned a wonderful ceremony for us in Italy some time in September.  If we don't get married ahead of time and apply for the advance parole, all of Sabrina's relatives will be waiting for us, drinking the wine and drawing little pictures of me on the cocktail napkins with daggers sticking into my head accompanied by captions that, thankfully, I won't be able to read.  I don't want that.

So we have to get married almost immediately so we can file our paperwork (this is making Brad, my volleyball doubles partner and best man, nervous because he doesn't have much time to throw together a bachelor party--and it takes a lot of time to bake that hollow cake).  After that, we plan to actually put together a real ceremony so that we can celebrate the event with my family and friends--and even a few of Sabrina's relatives and friends, including her parents who have yet to ever set foot on a plane.  Then we're off to Milan, Italy to do it all again (only in Italian, I presume--I'm praying for subtitles).  

Now comes the time for some idle musings about the whole situation:  You know, this whole thing is kind of like inching into icy water.  Although jumping into the lake would get it over with, I'm hoping that by the time I'm in Italy, I'll be used to the whole thing. :)  Maybe I should promote the event and sell a package deal ticket for all three ceremonies: "Around the World in Three Weddings" or "The World Series of Weddings" or "Three Weddings and No Funeral" (I forgot how bad my jokes can be sometimes).  I wonder if I can swing three times the wedding present loot?  And finally, can you imagine being forced to watch all three wedding videos?  (Maybe I'll eventually use them as a punishment for our children).  

There's another event coming up shortly.  Raise your hands if you remember my plan update about buying a hole in the ground.  Is your hand up?  Really?  Did you actually give yourself the WoT Slap on the Back too?  OK... now everyone who remembers Monday's development update, go ahead and poke yourself in the eye.  I know it hurt--sorry.   I just wanted to see what else I could get you to do.  (You'd better stop reading.  Sooner or later, this power I've got will corrupt and I'll have you punching perfect strangers and sending your paycheck directly to me.)

Anyway, the house we planned to have one day is almost done.   Someday soon, perhaps I'll post a picture or two of it.  My childhood has hardwired me with the desire for a large house with a reasonably sized lawn to raise my own family.  Sabrina and I both discovered a wonderful model and then managed to find a lot that fulfilled my wishes.  Now that it's almost finished, I find myself falling more and more in love with it.  It's the house that I've dreamed of, and the fact that Sabrina is as much in love with it as I just makes it perfect.  We both love the neighborhood as well.  We plan to move there in about two weeks.  Any volunteers to help?

Because of the upcoming move, I recently sent out an email that notified some family and friends to our upcoming address and phone number.  The names at the top were Glen and Sabrina Dahlgren.  When Sabrina received it, she reacted much like I did when I typed it.  It seems so straightforward, but even a little thing like this helps the reality of it come home.  After so long, we're actually going to be together.  We're actually going to be married.  We're going to spend the rest of our lives together.

This is so right.

Thought for the day:  Those of you who remember that I end my updates with a thought for the day, go ahead and sucker punch your neighbor and send your paycheck on over to my new address!  (I warned you.)


May 17  20:28
====
E3 went really well.  Everyone worked very hard up until we left, and then worked like crazy on the show floor.  It all came together and kicked ass.  I'm not in the office (I and the rest of the team are recovering today), so I'm postponing the update to decribe it all until tomorrow.

Until then!

March 21  23:57
====
It's been quite a while since my last update, but if you're reading this, I guess you know that.  As you probably also know, most of my game-related stuff goes into my weekly updates to wot.com, so don't expect any Wheel of Time insights here.

Mostly, I wanted to respond to the surprising number of emails asking about Sabrina, the new house, and all of the other boring elements of my life that most people should have zero interest in.

First, Sabrina is doing wonderfully.  A few weeks ago, she had her gall bladder removed in an Italian hospital.  I was lucky enough to be there to care for her the little bit I could during the operation and a few hours afterward, but then I had to fly back to help with WoT, so I had to wish her well over the phone from then on.  It was a little strange to actually see the stone they removed from her.  It was about the size and texture of a peach pit.  I'm sure that it'll make an interesting conversation piece eventually.

She was laid up for a week or so, but is now on her feet and back to work.  The operation was a complete success.  She's actually going back for wedding dress fittings and the like, so things are pretty much back to normal.

Speaking of the upcoming wedding, this is another front in our lives right now.  It seems that two institutions hold quite a bit of power over our future right now--institutions that I never thought I'd be tangling with: the INS and the Catholic Church.

Based on the requirements that the Powers That Be have leveled, we've tentatively set some dates for the various ceremonies and we're now scrambling for paperwork.  First, she'll come here to help me move into the new house shortly after we've shipped WoT (and I've collapsed--along with the rest of the team, I'm sure).  After a few months (90 days, to be exact), we'll get married here.  I'm not quite sure what the ceremony will entail, but I suspect it may simply be civil--because after we go on a honeymoon for a week or so, we'll fly to Italy for a religious ceremony, hopefully in one of the many huge, ancient, and beautiful churches there.  

The Catholic church has been very much like a large stone, not really going out of their way to stop us, but certainly not making our trip any easier.  My mother is rummaging around, looking for my baptism certificate, writing up a declaration that I'm free to marry.  I'm trying to find a local priest that can take us through the training (training to be married; what'll those wacky Catholics come up with next?).  The Canonical Prenuptial Investigation is especially... interesting.

Here are a few sample questions:

1) Marriage is by its nature directed toward the good of the spouses and the procreation and raising of children.  Do you accept the duty of fatherhood without excluding the good of procreation?

2) During the engagement did you have any reasons to doubt about the success of your marriage?  Did you hide anything that could upset seriously the married life (for example: serious mental illness...)?

3) Are there any other impediments to the canonical marriage (id est: have you received Holy Orders or made perpetual religious profession?  Have you raped your fiancee?  Were you in any way responsible for the death of your previous spouse?  Are you aware of any bodily defect that would prevent you from having marital relations?).

And there's more...

But we're forging ahead.  And all of this on top of the machine that is WoT.

Personally, I have a vision that keeps me going.  It's like this: 

1) We've released WoT, and people like it (even the die hard fans).
2) Sabrina and I are happily married.
3) We're living in our new house (with BA wiring and the most expensive bidet in the world).
4) She's found a wonderful job that makes her happy, but doesn't keep her away from me any more than my job does from her.
5) After a period of recuperation--and cool down for everyone involved--I work with the wonderful and talented team at Legend (anyone I can pry away from Unreal 2, at least) to make WoT 2 (or something much like it) to produce many of the elements that we didn't get to in WoT 1.

Until then, we'll all keep going on WoT.  The end is in sight, but sprinting the last few miles is hard for anyone, especially after running a marathon.  I can't tell you how proud I am of this team.  And, as wonderful as the end product will be, I'm convinced that it will merely show the seeds of what we're all capable of.  

Legend's just getting warmed up.

Thought for the day: "If you're responsible for the death of your previous spouse, perhaps a church wedding is not for you."


December 19  19:32
====
Last night, I got the Christmas present that I was praying for: a letter from the INS informing me that my petition to bring Sabrina to the U.S. had been approved.  Our trials aren't over; the petition has been cabled to the consolate in Naples.  They're going to send her the appropriate forms, and then she'll have to go there for an interview.  But the assumed time for this process is about two months.  My guess is that she'll be here to see the release of WoT, and that we'll be married shortly thereafter (just in time to go on a honeymoon!).  

BTW, make sure to check out the disk that comes with the latest Next Gen (I finally picked up a copy this evening).  It has a really cool trailer for the game.  You can finally see something move (although the effects are really outdated)!

Thought for the day: Have a fan-freakin-tastic Xmas!


December 12  01:08
====
My my my.  It's been a while since I had a moment to breathe, much less update my .plan.  Honestly, the weekly update to the web page is more than I usually have time for, so my .plan is usually relegated into the ether.  But, I had a moment, we just delivered an important milestone, so I decided to write.

Quite a lot has happened in my life since last I visited my .plan.  First, I finally sold my house.  I took a bath on it and financed a second trust, but twenty-year-old townhouses aren't easy to unload in this area.  I was happy to get out alive.

Shortly thereafter, I moved into an apartment that I haven't seen very much of.  I like it a lot--although I was convinced that there was no way that the movers could fit all of my stuff into this two bedroom space.  They did.  Of course, the boxes are about half the size that they once were.  I'm sure that there was a lot of air in those packages, though.

I'm leaving most of it boxed since I'll be moving out in a few months into my new house--the one I haven't even looked at.  According to my contract, they're building it, but I haven't had a chance to drive by to confirm it.  I might be moving into a hole in the ground.  I wonder how the movers will fit my stuff in *there*?

Sabrina is back in Italy right now.  Last year, I had planned to travel to Italy to spend Xmas with her and her family, and New Year's and her Birthday (which are both the same day, by the way) with her in the most romantic hotel in Venice.  Well, the game calls, and I must heed it.  Instead, I'm flying her out here for a few days surrounding Jan. 1st so I can spend it with her.  I'll spend Xmas with my close companion, WoT.

Actually, I'm just happy that I'm going to get to see Sabrina; I just wish I knew exactly when she was coming here for good.  I would really like her in my life.  We're both working tirelessly to get her fiancee visa out of the INS.  

They haven't made things particularly easy for us.  I ordered the forms from them, and they sent them.  The day I received the forms, I sent them back filled out with all of the requested supporting documents.  Unfortunately, from the time that they sent me the forms to the time that I received them, the application fee was raised.  So they returned everything, telling me that they wanted more money.  They wasted more than two weeks with this process.  Arrgh.

I wrote another check and resubmitted the forms.  Another two weeks go by, and I received both a notice that they've started processing the application, and a request for documented proof that Sabrina and I have actually met.  It may not sound like much, but in the midst of crunch-time, it was really difficult finding time to gather and organize all of the documentation to prove that Sabrina and I were in the same place at the same time.  Sabrina helped a lot.  She managed to keep plane tickets, photos, statements from her checking account from when she lived with me, etc.  I placed this, along with a bunch of stuff I had, in a package with a written account of our history together.  Now, I'm waiting for the next chapter in the INS story.

We're hoping that she can interview with the embassy in Italy within a month or two.  After that, she'll move here in about two months.  Then the visa states that we have to get married within three months of her arrival.  

We considered getting married three times total--the first in Las Vegas, to satisfy the INS requirement.  Then, we'd have a ceremony in the US for my family and friends.  Finally, we'd have another in Italy for her friends and considerable family--also to make it legal; marriages in either country are not recognized by the other.  But this means I'll actually be an Italian citizen.  Cool.

We're still debating whether we should go for the Las Vegas trip.  I have a friend who arranged his wonderful wedding within about three months, so I know it's actually possible.  Also, Sabrina won't have a job when she first arrives--she'll still be interviewing--so it may be that she can handle most of the arrangements.  Lord knows I'm not going to be able to soon.

We've been discussing the wedding in Italy.  Boy, those Italian Catholics are strict!  They want us to go through big, metal, barbed hoops just to get married in a church there (I'll just start with the six month's required marriage "training", and let your imagination take it from there).  

I'm not quite sure what we're going to do, but I know her family is VERY excited about having a big wedding/party there.  And, to my amazement, my parents actually want to attend the Italian ceremony as well.  Given that English is virtually my sole form of communication, it'll be nice to be able to speak to someone other than my wife-to-be (I envision the Italian priest asking me to agree to all sorts of bizarre vows, and I'm just nodding my head like an imbecile and saying "I do, I do" to everything while the onlookers roll on the floor laughing).

I think that's enough for one chunk.  I'll try to update more frequently, but I promise nothing.  WoT is nothing if not a jealous mistress.  Wait a second, WoT's a GAME, not a jealous mistress.  Does that mean it's nothing?  Wow, I'm tired.

I'll leave you with my thought of the day.  It's not exactly a quotable thought, but it's been running through my head lately.  

Life is a series of experiences.  As you get older, time passes faster.  Well, it doesn't really, but it feels that way.  This is because, as your repertoire of experiences grows, you are no longer forced to process how to deal with them from scratch.  Dealing with new experiences makes you aware of the time you take to do it.  When life is slipping away, chances are that you're in a rut.  Believe me, sometimes the most comfortable place is to lie there in that rut.

If you want to truly live, get out of it.  Do something new.  Find a wonderful Italian girl and marry her (well, it's working for me).  Life is always what you make of it.  When you think of how long you've been alive, realize that this number of years is ETERNITY to you.  NOTHING existed before you were born, at least, as far as you're concerned.  Chances are, you have more than eternity ahead of you as well.  As long as you live it.

So, if you think I'm crazy, then just chock it up to my tiredness.  If you get something out of it, well, I'm still tired, so it's probably just you.

Later!


October 2  11:15
====
I apologize for skipping the Monday update; this has been a rough week all over.  There's no way I'm going to get to do the update before next Monday, so this will have to do.  

The presentation for the magazine feature went really well (although every time I mention the word DEMO in an update, I get a million requests for it--let me tell you now that when we build a public demo, you'll KNOW about it! I'll do everything possible to get it into your hands, not hoard it, waiting for people to pry it out of mine).  

We've also been playing some arena matches lately, which rock.  The whole game has a much different rhythm than any other FPS out there.  It's pretty cool.

You'd think that with Sabrina in Italy, my life would have a little extra time built in.  Nope.  The game is very demanding right now, supplemented by selling my house, finding an apartment, buying the new house, and moving (twice, eventually).  Also, the paperwork associated with getting Sabrina here is a pain in the ass (an expression Sabrina finds hilarious because she visualizes it literally; I guess there is no Italian equivalent).

I think that's enough for now.  Hey, it's only a few days until the next update anyway.

Thought for the day: "I'm in the Black Cherry Zone."
	--Quote from Scott and I working on the magazine presentation that we found incredibly funny at about 4:00am.


September 21  18:22
====
Well, I've gone and done it.  I bought a house.  Actually, I paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for a big pile of dirt, rocks, and weeds (which is MUCH better, don't you think?).  I guess you could consider all that money as a bet that a house WILL be there when I need it.  

Sabrina and I must have looked at every dang house from here to the city (Washington).  We met every type of person in our travels including someone that ordered us off the property and refused to believe that the house that he was renting was for sale, despite the fact that I had the advertisement with a BIG photo of the house to show him (he didn't appreciate my showing it to him, either).  I was sincerely scared that he was about to go postal on us, even with his whole family there.  We also discovered that model homes are great places to get cold drinks; we stopped inside of a $450,000 house, nodded appreciatively, and grabbed a couple of sodas from the refrigerator before high-tailing to much cheaper lands.

One thing you should know about northern VA: the closer you get to D.C., the more money you throw away--or the crappier the houses are in your price range.  We visited one "contemporary" house (which is a term realtors give houses that they just can't figure out) in Fairfax that I swear was designed by a madman.  The description stated that there were five levels and three bedrooms.  We concluded that it must have been a misprint.  It wasn't.  

This house was some abstract artist's nightmare; there were levels there without ANY rooms.  Blind corridors, catwalks, crawlways, a bedroom with a bathtub in the corner, stairs leading into pits, and rooms secluded from everything (the chains and manacles had been removed, of course).  The exterior was even worse; the neighbor planted a row of trees just to block out the view.  I was convinced that the man who lived there just disappeared one day--to return only in the dead of night when someone else had moved in.  

There's no real reason for us to extend ourselves too much to buy property close to the city.  Although we have no idea where Sabrina is going to end up working, Legend is located somewhat west of D.C.--far enough so that by traveling just a bit more, you hit the edge of the housing expansion where prices are a little more reasonable and lot sizes are just a bit bigger (I managed to find a yard where I might actually be able to play volleyball).  We're buying a wonderful new house in a community that Sabrina and I adore, just off of the main route so that commuting won't be too painful.

I've learned that a man without the woman of his life should absolutely steer clear of interior design decisions, though.  With Sabrina in Italy right now waiting for the fiancee visa, I'm finding that the answer to many of these questions is the same: "I'll have to check with her."

Incidentally, it's really tough being without Sabrina right now.  Does anyone truly know if it would impede the process of getting the fiancee visa to have her here?  (Qualified answers only, please; I can guess as well as the next guy--and with the research I've done lately, I can probably guess BETTER).  

Buying this house is just the latest of a bunch of life-changing "clicks" that I've had lately--things that you work on, worry over, think about, etc. for a long time (I was house-hunting for almost a year), which suddenly click into place.  When you make the right decision (or to quote Bob, "When it solves more problems than it causes"), you know it.  It feels right.  I've had a lot of these lately, culminating literally years of worry.

Now, if my current house actually sells soon (there's a contract on it already), I've got to find a place to live for the next six months.  Yuch.

Thought for the day: Sometimes, procrastinating is the most useful thing you can do.  


September 15  11:01
====
As you may have read in wheeloftime.com's update, I've just returned from a wonderful trip to Washington State, my birthplace.  I went there mostly to show Sabrina where I grew up and to introduce her to my father--and a little something more.  A wonderful thing about visiting Washington is that you can see virtually every type of geography: ocean view, the mountains, the desert, and miles and miles of green forest.  I even took some pictures for our level designers; I saw a wonderful representation of the Mountains of Mist here.

We started in Westport, a declining resort town that nevertheless is one of the most important places in the world to me, then drove back to Seattle where we spent some quality time with my father and half-sister.  By far, though, the most important leg of the trip was the last.

We drove over the mountains and arrived in Richland, my home town.  Given that it was a plastic community created to support the research work being done in Hanford over thirty years ago, I'm continually surprised that the small town not only survives, but flourishes.  We stayed in the Doubletree hotel, which had taken over the Hanford House--a hotel I remember from my youth, a place I always wanted to visit.  It's a round building surrounding a wonderful garden courtyard right on the shore of the Columbia River.

After having dinner in the Edgewater (the hotel restaurant which overlooks the river), we took a stroll in the park that runs along side the Columbia.  There, on a dimly lit dock, I produced a ring and told Sabrina that I wanted nothing more than to share my life with her.  Then, just in case she didn't take the hint, I asked her to marry me.  For some reason, she agreed.  

I can't tell you how happy this makes me.  Sabrina is truly my partner in all things, and the thought of building a life with her makes the future very exciting.  

Now, she has returned to Italy as we process the fiancee visa to bring her back.  This will undoubtedly take a few months at least.  While I'd give anything to have her back now, this does give me some time to focus on building The Wheel of Time.  It's funny but game people seem to do best when they have no other life--but it tends to work out because truly impassioned game people don't mind; they're doing what they'd do in their off time anyway.

Let me reiterate that I think this is probably the best time in history to be here.  Some wonderful things are happening at Legend, and I'm really glad to be a part of it all.  We've got a great team which is going to make some great stuff.  Stay tuned; it only gets better from here.

Thought for the day: If you're trying to define love, you haven't found it yet.


August 27  14:32
====
Within the space of a week (after a lapse of years), I saw two concerts.  Talk about a study in extremes: one was Van Halen, and the other was the San Fran Ballet Company, and let me tell you, the Ballet ROCKED (but Eddie could have used a tutu)!  It's a good thing I wasn't a die-hard VH fan; I think the new singer would have ruined it for me.

While I was at the Nissan Pavilion, I learned that Jethro Tull will be touring soon.  Jethro Tull is a band I have to see when they tour only because their albums from years gone by are some of my favorites--but Ian is a lot like Piers Anthony: he had some great ideas once, and it's all been downhill since.  I kicked the Anthony habit a few years back (thank god; one more Xanth book and my brain would have turned into a pun-filled lump of rotten cheese--they ain't GOOD puns, mind you), but I continue to follow Tull on the hopes that Ian will one day rediscover his roots.  Who knows?

Sabrina and I are still house-hunting, pressured a bit by her imminent departure.  She's going to leave in about three weeks to return to Italy.  We're working at making it possible to bring her back here asap, but I'm going to be one sad game designer until she's back with me at home.  Soon, I'm taking her on a tour of Washington State to meet my father and to show her where I was born and raised.  The day after we return, she's on a flight to Italy.  I guess that means I'll be able to spend more time on WoT, right?  Sigh.

Game stuff: I'm getting more and more excited about the team on WoT.  I'll elaborate next week, but we're bringing in a whole lot of really talented people to supplement the team we've already got.  They've got a bunch of energy and excitement that's catching.  Again, more next week in the official update.

By the way, don't forget to attend the WoT IRC conference this Friday at 8:00pm.  Details can be found at http://www.3dgaming.net/.  I have no idea what to expect, but given the group that should show up, I tend to think it's going to be fun.

Thought for the day: Piers Anthony figured out a way through his writer's block.  Don't let this happen to you!


August 11  21:52
====
A little nugget for all of the CoCo-philes out there.  I was recently interviewed by Nickolas Marentes, mostly concerning my rather illustrious past with the Tandy Color Computer (no howling!).  It was fun to revisit that world for a little bit.  If anybody cares, the interview can be found on Nick's CoCo page at http://www.launch.net.au/~nickm/coco/.  

I'm actually pretty happy to have the plan files back up.  I really didn't have anywhere else to empty out my brain pan.  

Thought for the day: The PC may be faster and more powerful than the CoCo, but it didn't appear in Revenge of the Nerds (part one, of course)!


July 21  20:10
====
Again, milestone fun is killing me.  I'm starting to hate these buggers.  I'm afraid that updating the web page is low priority on the totem pole.  If I can't get to it this week, I'll try to make it up to you with a Viewer Mail or Counter Contest column next week (but I'm not promising anything).

Thought for the day: You ever tried to deliver a stone a mile wide?  I don't blame you.


July 20  18:41
====
There's no way I'm going to be able to update the web page today.  The milestone has sucked away all of my time and energy.  I'll try to get to it tomorrow.  Thanks for stopping by.  


July 20  13:53
====
Someone once told me, "Making games is impossible.  If a game actually comes together, it's a miracle."  Being in the miracle business is tough; it's a good thing the payoff is so damn cool.  

Speaking of miracles, I want to say that I appreciate the whole WoT team's efforts--every one of them is personally responsible for making this game come alive--but Scott's da man.  "Sleep?  That's for wusses."

The thing I'd talk most here is my weekend trip to the Smithsonian to see the new Star Wars exibit, but since I took some shots with my digital camera, I think I'll include them with the web page's update (www.wheeloftime.com).  I'm transferring them over to the computer right now.

Watch the page for more stuff later today, if I can dig my way out of the milestone deliverable.

Thought for the day: "The bathroom is an amazing place for me."
	-Steve Bodnar, animator for WoT


July 16 10:13
====
I realize that people really want to see a demo, an animation, anything that moves that illustrates this game--and I'd love to have the time and opportunity to put something together for you--but when I mention that we've built an internal video or demo for a presentation to Jordan or a milestone or for the press, please don't bombard me with requests to see it.  If I could, I'd release whatever it is to the public; believe me.  Anything that can, does go into your hands.  Sending me email asking for it won't make it happen, sorry.

Just as I was writing up some character descriptions yesterday, power fled our building.  It wasn't nearly as bad as when we had a network failure after I'd written the entire update plus viewer mail plus the counter contest and hadn't saved any of it--so at least I have perspective.  I can't quite decide on the next character to be modeled.  I'm thinking of the Shadar Logoth boss (who's really twisted) or perhaps the Blight monster.  Does anyone have a description of a Worm?  As far as I remember, we never got to see one in the books--but I could be wrong.  

By the way, you may be interested to know that Amazon.com is making the "Crown of Swords" (the most recent Wheel of Time book) available for $.01.  You have to be a first time customer, and you have to pay for shipping, but a penny for this book is a pretty good deal.  If you haven't yet bought one (or you'd like to stock up for when the binding breaks because you've read it so much), check it out.

Milestone's coming up.  Gotta go.


July 13 12:36
====
I played in another volleyball tournament over the weekend; this one was men's doubles.  Most of the games were tough up until the finals, which we won 15-1.  This is a team that we actually lost to on our net.  I guess they just ran out of steam.

I also went house shopping and found a place that I really like; Sabrina fell in love with it partially because the owner lived in Italy for five years and the house was decorated exactly in her taste.  Heck, they even had Italian money laying around.  Regardless of all the intangibles that we wouldn't be buying, the house is a model that we were considering building, so I'm actually just as excited about it.

Now I sit here and try to think about game-related stuff to say, and realize that everything I want to, I'll include in the web-page update.  Let me know if anyone cares about these personal musings.  It's certainly much easier than 
an official update, and I'll probably do it more often.

Thought for the day: You can pick your nose, and you can pick your friends, but you can't wipe your friends on the back of the couch.


July 9 15:56
====
Don't look here for a lot of game-related stuff (although there may be some). Since I update the web page every Monday, most of my WoT spewage can be found there.  I plan on reserving this space for brain dumps of a different
nature.  We'll see how it works out.

Thought for the day: Go ahead and beat a dead horse.  The live one might kick your butt.