Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11/19/2001

Return To Castle Wolfenstein Shelf Date News!

According to my sources at Activision, the following stores will
have the game available tomorrow, Tuesday November 20:

CompUSA
Best Buy
EB (USA)
Gamestop
EB (Canada)

If you pre-ordered the Tin, I think those should be available tomorrow
in the locations listed above, but you may want to call ahead to
make sure.  If you didn't order a Tin, but would like to pick one up,
I understand that a limited number may make their way to store 
shelves.  I'm guessing that any available Tin boxes will disappear
as soon as they hit the shelves.

The official strategy guide from Prima should be available this coming
Friday, and they've done a really nice job on this one.  If you've been 
following the news about Wolf, you know that there are a ton of secrets 
and easter eggs in the game not to mention the various tactical approaches
you can take to a given scenario and the guide will take you through all of 
that.

I look forward to seeing a bunch of you on the servers tomorrow!  Schnell!
Schnell!

11/14/2001

WoooHOOOO!  Wolf is golden indeed.  Congrats to Gray Matter, 
Activision and Nerve for all of the hard work they have put 
in over the last 2+ years we've been working on this game.

If you're interested in the sweet collectors' tin boxes (that come
with a cool poster and a sew-on Wolf logo patch) I think you 
can still get those through the various pre-order programs at 
Best Buy (blue), Gamestop/Babbages (silver) and EB (black) 
while supplies last (these may go quickly now).

It looks like people will actually be able to pick up copies
early next week in many places and after Thanksgiving most 
everywhere in the U.S.  The international versions will follow
very shortly behind due to increased manufacturing time and shipping
logistics, but I'm guessing there will be world-wide availabilty
by the first of December.

I don't know when we will have them for sale direcly from id, but
retail will definitely have the initial availability.  I'll post
direct-sale information as soon as I have it.

No date yet on the Mac version, but it's coming soon (not gold yet, 
though).  We don't have plans to sell Linux in retail, but Timothee
has done great work on the downloadable binaries so far, and I expect
that to continue.

**Special note to our German fans:  buy as soon as they come out and
avoid the "rush" ;-)  I know you guys know what I mean...