Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: 
Description: CEO
Project: 
Last Updated: 08/12/2002 14:28:48 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8/12/2002

QuakeCon 2002 is almost upon us!  They've actually already begun setting up
in what we affectionately call "The QuakeCon Hotel" (aka Mesquite Hampton Inn).
This year's event promises to be the best one yet.  With help from ATI, we've got
$100,000 up for grabs in the Wolf and Quake III tournaments, VIA is throwing all
manner of parties and is hosting a Q3 Trick Jump competition (really looking forward
to that one myself), and there will be tons of new Activision games on display, 
including all of the new RTCW games and Enemy Territory.

We'll kick off the party on Thursday with a bar-b-que lunch, where it looks like 
much wildness will be on display with the body and car painting contests.  John will
be giving the official keynote on Friday afternoon.  You definitely won't want to 
miss that.  Tournament finals and celebration (complete with cheap booze and a live 
band - you have to be 21 for the cheap booze part) happens Saturday night

And, of course, there will be DOOM III.  And not just a little bit of DOOM III, but
the whole E3 theater with a brand-spanking-new-never-before-publicly-shown
presentation.  You might think of it as being an extended play version of the 
"Best of Show" E3 presentation.  Sorry, no cameras, so you'll have to come and see
it in person.

We've closed the online registration, but we'll have first-come-first-serve registration
at the QuakeCon Hotel.  Admission is free, but we're expecting our biggest crowd
ever, so we can't promise admission or slots in the BYOC area to those who didn't 
pre-register.

There are more details available at http://www.quakecon.org

Along with everyone at id, I look forward to seeing everyone later this week.
It's going to be fun =)

7/8/2002

RTCW Game of The Year Edition for the budget minded shopper: $34.99 this
week at Circuit City according to yesterday's circular ad.  If you missed
out on the blitzkrieg last fall, here's your chance to pick up a copy of the
game on the cheap with lots of extras.  More info on the content can be found
in the press release here: 

http://www.idsoftware.com/business/home/press/index.php?date=20020626120000

4/30/2002

Good stuff for RTCW fans:

http://www.planetwolfenstein.com/features/dearhelga/dearhelga_02-04-26.shtml

3/4/2002

Congratulations to our RTCW partners Gray Matter and Nerve on the Academy of
Interactive Arts and Sciences awards for Best Online Game and Computer Action/
Adventure Game of the Year for Return to Castle Wolfenstein!

12/22/2001

I've had a few questions about the price of private Quake II engine licensing
now that we have released the source under the GPL.  We're doing the same 
thing with Quake II that we did with the Quake engine and reducing the price 
to a flat $10,000 if you want to keep your source code proprietary.  You're not
required to pay the fee if you abide by the GPL, of course.  But some people
have been interested in maintaining their own source and not releasing it, so
we offer this option as an alternative.  The technology licensing page on our 
website will be updated to reflect this after the start of the new year.

