Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: 
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3-15-2004

We're completely sold out of the DOOM novels.  Thanks to everyone who ordered.  I'm sorry we didn't
have enough for everyone who wanted a set.  We still have the new DOOM 3 T-shirts available.

For the international fans, I'm sorry that we can't currently ship outside of the U.S.  We're working
on adding this functionality to the store as soon as we can.  Please be patient and I'll let everyone
know once we can ship everywhere.

3-12-2004

*WARNING*  Shameless plug follows!!!

BIG id Store news!  Check out www.idsoftware.com for a couple of items we _just_ put up for sale.
For the first time ever, we've got some brand new DOOM 3 T-shirts available on the web store.
These are nice 100% cotton T-Shirts that we originally had made for us internally (I have 2 or 3).
Also, while we were doing some Spring Cleaning, we uncovered a few pristine sets of the 
original DOOM pocket novels.  We're going to put these on sale until they're all gone.  Today, 
we're also lowering our "direct download" price on Heretic and Hexen to $20.

When the pocket novels are gone, they are truly gone.  These are out of print and I don't believe
there is any place in the world where you can buy them new any longer.  The set of four is $20 plus
shipping.  I've seen them used on Amazon for about twice that price.

We're going to continue to add interesting items to the web store moving forward.  Keep checking it
for new items as they become available.

03-01-2004

Just a reminder to everyone that the official release date for DOOM 3 is "when it's done".
If you hear a release date from _anyone_ outside of id, then you should presume it to be false.
There have been some rumors floating around about this already, and I expect there will be more
between now and the time that you first see someone from id update a .plan file with the news 
that the game has been finished.  Don't believe them.