Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: 
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7-14-2004 10:19 PM CDT

A few bottles of champagne later (so excuse the typos)....

First of all, thank you to everyone who sent congratulatory notes on the GOLD announcement.  I speak for
everyone at id when I say I wish I could respond to everyone personally, but hopefully this general note
can convey how much we sincerely appreciate the sentiment from everyone out there waiting for the game.

A few people have reminded me of some details omitted from my initial update:

Mac and Linux:  Unfortunately I don't have dates for either of these.  However, Linux binaries will be
available very soon after the PC game hits store shelves.  There are no plans for boxed Linux games.  
More remains to be done for the OSX version of DOOM 3 and that will take some time.  We won't release
the OSX version until it's just as polished as the PC version.  The date for OSX DOOM 3 remains "when it's
done", but I can confirm that it's definitely coming.

Demo:  our priority was finishing the game first and now we are turning our attention to the demo.  I 
don't have any information to share regarding any specific content, but I don't believe that we have 
ever disappointed in that regard in the past.  We will release the demo as soon as it's done, but this
probably won't happen until after the game has arrived on U.S. store shelves.

Last, but not least, the id Store:  we will have copies of DOOM 3 available, but only after we get them.
I'm sure that some of the hardcore game retailers will get them even before we do.  Check our website for
updates on this.  We certainly appreciate everyone who has helped to make the id Store a huge success this
year.  By the way, more DOOM 3 T-Shirts just arrived, so those popular items are back in stock and will be
available this week.

I understand that people have lots and lots of questions.  We're working on pulling together some form of
an official FAQ, but even though we're done we still have several responsibilities that are urgent as the
game heads for retail.  Please bear with us on this.

I know I owe you those preparation tips, but they will have to wait until tomorrow.

7-14-2004 11:52 AM CDT

IT'S DONE!!!!!!!

Yes, this is the official word that DOOM 3 has been code released and has been approved for manufacturing!
It won't be long now until the anticipation ends and the PH34R begins ;-)  We literally just hung up with
Activision and have confirmed that our latest release candidate has been mutually approved and is finally
GOLD.  Thanks to everyone for their patience (yeah right! =) and for everyone at id, Activision and our 
numerous partners for helping us create what I believe is absolutely the best game we have ever made.

So, the next question is release dates.  Retailers in the States will be allowed to pick up games starting
at 12:01 AM on August 3rd.  The official street date is actually August 5th in the U.S.A., but some of 
your favorite stores will probably have it early for those of you who have to have it first.  Check with
your local retailer for that information.

Internationally, the game will take a few more days to make it to the store shelves.  The UK will probably get it first, on or about August 6th.  Everywhere else will probably be Friday, August 13th (que Twilight Zone Theme) or close to that date, with just a few exceptions (e.g. Russia and Poland).  This isn't 
because we don't have love for you folks outside the U.S., but the localization and manufacturing process
takes a bit longer outside the U.S. where we will have JVC run 24/7 to get the units built.  I guess the
European manufacturers prefer to give their employees nights and weekends off.  Go figure!

The champagne is flowing here at id and smiles abound!

I'll update again with some DOOM 3 preparation tips (not what hardware to buy - you'll have to wait for
a programmer for that sort of thing).  In the meantime, I want to see those "DOOM 3 GOLD!!!" threads set
new records for swamping message board servers, destroying productivity, and post counts ;-)

Recapping today's headlines....DOOM 3 GOLD!!!

3-15-2004

We're completely sold out of the DOOM novels.  Thanks to everyone who ordered.  I'm sorry we didn't
have enough for everyone who wanted a set.  We still have the new DOOM 3 T-shirts available.

For the international fans, I'm sorry that we can't currently ship outside of the U.S.  We're working
on adding this functionality to the store as soon as we can.  Please be patient and I'll let everyone
know once we can ship everywhere.

3-12-2004

*WARNING*  Shameless plug follows!!!

BIG id Store news!  Check out www.idsoftware.com for a couple of items we _just_ put up for sale.
For the first time ever, we've got some brand new DOOM 3 T-shirts available on the web store.
These are nice 100% cotton T-Shirts that we originally had made for us internally (I have 2 or 3).
Also, while we were doing some Spring Cleaning, we uncovered a few pristine sets of the 
original DOOM pocket novels.  We're going to put these on sale until they're all gone.  Today, 
we're also lowering our "direct download" price on Heretic and Hexen to $20.

When the pocket novels are gone, they are truly gone.  These are out of print and I don't believe
there is any place in the world where you can buy them new any longer.  The set of four is $20 plus
shipping.  I've seen them used on Amazon for about twice that price.

We're going to continue to add interesting items to the web store moving forward.  Keep checking it
for new items as they become available.

03-01-2004

Just a reminder to everyone that the official release date for DOOM 3 is "when it's done".
If you hear a release date from _anyone_ outside of id, then you should presume it to be false.
There have been some rumors floating around about this already, and I expect there will be more
between now and the time that you first see someone from id update a .plan file with the news 
that the game has been finished.  Don't believe them.