Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: 
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10-18-2004

First off, for DOOM 3 bargain shoppers, several retailers are running special ad prices this week at $39.99, 
including Best Buy and CompUSA.  Check your local circular ads.

Secondly, the subject of id-related tatoos came up during some water cooler talk last week.  I've seen some
pretty amazing ink on some folks: a guy has the Quake II invulnerability powerup tatooed across his back (shoulder to shoulder); the "stuck car mudwrestle girl" with the Quake 3 logo at the bottom of her back; a girl with interlocking Q-Q2-Q3A logos on the back of her neck; a guy with an ankle-to-knee Quake II logo, and there are several others.  I know there must be a ton out there that no one here even knows about, but we think they're pretty cool, and might even be worth having a contest to get people to send us pics of their tats.

So, here's the deal:  email me a genuine id-related tatoo photo of you or someone you know who has one.  It's probably best to take a couple different pics if you can.  Whoever has the best legitimate tatoo, judged in my sole discretion (with maybe some help from the team) will get one free copy of DOOM 3 + strategy guide + new "Making Of DOOM 3" book and I'll sign the game box for you.  Now, I'm not trying to encourage people to go out and get a tatoo - this is supposed to be for those who already have one.  If we get enough cool entries, the idea is that we'll compile and frame all the photos and put them in a big frame to hang on the wall here at id.  That's a pretty good consolation prize if you don't get the game/guide/book.

This isn't an "official" contest, so I'm not going to post lengthy lawyerly rules.  But, it needs to be your own tatoo.  You can't take a pic of someone else and get the stuff that way.  Photoshops don't count.  Temporary tatoos don't count.  The definition of "id-related" is in my sole discretion, but logos and art from the games work.  You need to email the photo to me at toddh@idsoftware.com with TATOO as the subject.  If you have the best tat, I'll contact you later for details using the email address you sent the photo from.  Please don't send files that are so big that they will choke my email client (i.e. be reasonable).

This should be fun.  When it's all done, if we get a good response and put all the pics together and frame them, I'll post a photo up on the front page of our website or something so eveyone who sends a photo can see what the final deal looks like hanging on the wall here.