Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
Last Updated: 02/10/1998 20:39:10 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2-10-98

The current issue of Next Generation has an
interview with Brian Moriarty, Mplayer's "head
of game design".  In the interview, Brain states
"Quake is a big hit, but Myst completely blows it
away.  Quake is almost irrelevant compared to Myst
and Riven in terms of sales numbers..."

Now I doubt that Brian is trying to slam id or 
Quake in any way, and I'm not trying to put him down
here, but the entire notion that Quake is not in the 
same league as Myst and Riven from a sales standpoint 
is laughable.  Since Broderbund released Myst, we have 
released DOOM, DOOM II, Ultimate DOOM, Final DOOM, 
Master Levels for DOOM II, Quake, both Quake Mission 
Packs and Quake II.  DOOM has been ported to every 
console and operating system under the sun and is
the subject of motion picture efforts from Tri-Star.
A proper comparison would look at the sales and exposure
of all of these titles and then determine which games 
truly have a broader appeal.  Myst may be the best
selling *game*, but DOOM is a much more popular 
franchise.  I expect that in a couple of years I will
be able to make the same comparison between the Quake
franchise and Riven.

I think Brian will lead Mplayer in the wrong direction
if he is hoping to build the business on the shoulders
of games like Myst and Riven.  Online gaming is a 
business driven by game enthusiasts, not people who
call checkers their idea of a great multiplayer game.

2-2-98

Congrats to Thresh for the PGL victory.  It's
too bad I couldn't be there to see it live.
The tournament sounded incredibly exciting
with Reptile's "upset" of Thresh in the early 
rounds and then Thresh coming back under what
must have been tremendous pressure.  Some
may argue over whether playing Quake is a
proper sport, but I would guess that in the 
rounds leading up to the finals the pressure
was as intense as a pro golf tournament.  Given
that each deathmatch is so different, I think
it is really amazing that Thresh manages to 
consistently come out on top.

The PGL isn't without its share of faults, but 
I think they pulled off a successful first 
season.  They learned a lot and should be
improved for their second season.  At the very 
least, lots of Quake players got to compete for 
some pretty significant prizes and got to be in 
the spotlight for a while, which isn't bad at all.