Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
Last Updated: 10/15/1999 10:23:56 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10-15-1999

To put this rumor quickly to rest, we don't have any tracks from Nine Inch
Nails in the current Q3A soundtrack.  Trent spent most of his time this 
year completing his latest album (you can still call them that, right?),
and is now preparing for touring, if he's not already doing it.

As far as what is really in the soundtrack, I'm going to wait until it's
finalized to go into details, but we have some great music from names
many people will recognize.

9-14-1999

If you have a copy of the new October CGW, turn to pages 14-15 to see
my nomination for "Game Ad of the Year".

8-26-1999

In the aftermath of the Ottawa Sun article, I was forwarded the link
below by Bernd Kreimeier:

http://www.salon.com/tech/feature/1999/05/06/game_violence/index.html

This is an excellent article that addresses how Grossman misrepresents 
the scientific data.  It's not a new article, but it's worth a read if 
the subject interests you.


8-25-1999

Well we've all seen the brilliant journalism of the Ottawa Sun (or
whatever it is).  If you'd like to email them your thoughts on
fairness and accuracy in reporting, the address (from their page)
is oped@sunpub.com.  After taking a look at the pounding they were
getting from many of you over on sCary's messageboard, I sent the
editor the following:

Mr. Oliver:

I'm sure you're getting a mountain of email from people angry about
the number of factual inaccuracies in the story, so I'll just trust
that you'll fix that tomorrow.  I wanted to let you know that you can
email me directly if you would like to fact check articles that discuss 
our games in the future.  

And if this hasn't been made painfully clear to you already, Grossman's
contention that Quake III Arena has been pulled from the market is no
more accurate than any of his other assertions about id Software or our
games.  We're looking forward to an enormously successful launch of 
Quake III Arena later this year.  You can see what we're working on for 
yourself at http://www.quake3arena.com .

Regards,

Todd Hollenshead
CEO
id Software, Inc.

Now if only someone could get Grossman's email address!

Update:  I didn't think it would take all you HaX0rZ long =) 

Behold! The email for the ring leader of the campaign to spread inaccuracy 
about video games so that he can sell more copies of his books to unwitting
law enforcement officials and yellow journalists (from numerous sources):

LtColDaveG@aol.com

I don't know if it's active.  And remember, while the Ottawa Sun certainly
failed to conduct even a rudimentary fact check, it's Grossman making the
comments that are quoted.


8-02-1999

We're all getting excited about QuakeCon '99 which officially 
starts this Friday and continues through Sunday evening.
Many people have put in a ton of hard work to make this the
best QuakeCon ever and I have no doubt that it will be just
that.  Personally, I'm looking forward to watching the world's 
first official Quake III Arena tournament and getting to see
and meet many of you in person.  We're expecting a capacity 
crowd, which I'm guessing could be the largest "convention"
type event ever held in Mesquite (a town not known for large
conventions).

Along those lines, I wanted to advise everyone who may be making
the trip of exactly how full the area will be.  First, if you
aren't on the attendance list, you won't be able to get in to
the convention/conference.  The whole event is being administered
like a concert or sporting event:  if you don't have a ticket, you 
won't gain admission, regardless of who you know or how far you
traveled to get here.

Also, if you don't have accomodations at this point and are planning 
on attending, you need to make reservations immediately if you want 
to stay in Mesquite.  There are only a few hotels in the immediate 
area and I understand that all of them are already at or near capacity.
Dallas is a big city and has lots of places to stay, so if you
can't get a room in Mesquite there are alternatives, but you may
have to pay a premium and drive a few miles.

Everyone have a safe trip coming to Texas and I look forward to
seeing you there!

6-30-1999

Adrian and I were checking out our local Electronics Boutique
and we spotted the QII action figures out on the shelves for
$2.99 for all of the figures except for the Tank, which was 
$7.99.  I know a bunch of people have been looking for these
(especially the Tanks, which were so hard to find), so here's 
a chance to get them on the cheap.  Adrian bought a Tank figure,
since we only have a couple in the office.  We were amazed that 
they had the Tank figures in, and at less than 8 bucks it was 
just too cheap to pass up.

Also, Quake II for the N64 is now out.  EB had at least one copy
in that had arrived this morning

5-19-1999

This update is relevant only for all magazines, CD bundlers,
coverdisk makers, and shareware bundlers.

I have been getting a number of requests for permission to 
include the Q3Test on various types of CD's.  Please note
that this is expressly prohibited in the End User License 
Agreement for Q3Test.  The test is to be redistributed by 
electronic means *only*.  That means no CD coverdisks, no CD 
"shareware" compilations, no zip disk distribution, or any 
other form of distribution other than Internet mirrors and
other means of electronic file transfer.

We have been very clear that this test is not meant for
mass public distribution and should NOT be considered a
"demo".  The "demo" will come when it's done.

If you have any questions about the policy, you may email
me at toddh@idsoftware.com.