
Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12-3-1999

The demo that goes live today is The Demo.  That means that magazines
can put it on coverdisks (please do!), and that physical media distribution
is now generally permitted.  Please note that if you want to put the Demo
on a CD (or other physical media) and _sell_ it to someone or otherwise
commerically exploit the demo, you will need to enter into a 
separate agreement with us.  All of this is detailed in the EULA, of course.

I look forward to seeing a bunch of you online today playing FULL VERSION
Q3A maps in all their glory =)

12-2-1999

Shelf date update (Windows version only)!

Q3A was shipped today and you should expect Babbages and EB to have it
as early as tomorrow (I think they may have paid extra for expedited
shipping).  Please understand that not all of these stores may actuall
stock the game on shelves tomorrow and some of them may already be "sold 
out" due to the huge pre-order response (in fact, Q3A is #1 for these stores 
before even hitting the shelves).  CompUSA, Best Buy, Wal-Mart, etc. are
all getting copies as well, but they probably won't show up on shelves before
the "official" US date of December 5th.

Just like with Quake II, we won't have any copies for sale from 
1-800 idgames before the retailers (retail outlets are our first
priority for shipping).  I'll let everyone know once we get some here
so you can order direct from us.

UPDATE:  Linux Shelf Date

We have just announced with Loki Software (our Linux distributor) that 
we should be on shelves by December 27th in the limited edition tin box.

11-25-1999

Happy Thanksgiving everyone!

Great news for Linux users:  I just received word that the Linux 
version of Q3A *will* use the limited edition tin box that everyone 
has been clamoring for.  We should have an announcement on Monday 
with the expected availability date.

11-22-1999

Thanks for the mountain of congratulatory email.  As of this very
moment, I don't have a confirmed shelf date or availability date
from 1-800 idgames.  I'll post that information here just as soon
as I get confirmed dates for you guys and girls.  As John indicated,
it may be a few extra days before we get confirmation on Linux and
Mac due primarily to logistics.

11-17-1999

We just received a report that tells us that there have already been
at least 1,000,000 downloads of the demo test in less that 3 days.  WOW!
A tremendous thanks to the Quake III Arena (or soon to be) community.

11-14-1999

Demo Test notes:

As Graeme indicated, this is a preliminary release.  We are
retaining the prohibition on physical media distribution until we
release the final or "gold" demo.  That means that magazines will
NOT be allowed to distribute this version of the demo on coverdisks.
This is marked all over the test, however I would appreciate it if
all of the Quake 3 and game site webmasters that are mirroring or 
covering the release would lend me a hand and make sure our friendly 
neighborhood game and computer magazines understand this.

Rest assured, we will allow physical media distribution of the final 
demo, once it is released, but not yet.

Second, although the 1-800-idgames number is on the screen, we (id) aren't
accepting orders yet.  Also, please remember that number is not for 
technical support for Quake III Arena, the demo test, or any other id
game.  Feedback, bugs, etc., in the demo test should still be sent to 
feedback@quake3arena.com

Finally, before the crazy speculation starts, we aren't done with the
game yet.  We will be finished "when it's done!"  Again, anyone besides
id claiming to have the official release date is just pulling your chain.

Enjoy!

11-05-1999

There hasn't been a formal announcement about this that I'm aware of, so
I wanted to make sure that everyone knew that several retailers are
running Quake III Arena pre-order programs with the limited edition
tin box.  There will be less than 30,000 of the tin box editions 
available world-wide, so if this is something you want you probably
need to get your order in ASAP.  I don't have a picture to post, but
if you were at QuakeCon and saw the metal box in the black display
case, you know what the box looks like.

Just to clarify a few things that may be confusing:

We won't be selling these direct from id - it's purely a retail promotion.
There is no difference in the game content, only the box is different.
Some retailers are charging more for the tin box, and some are charging
the same price.  The actual retail price of the game is something that
is out of our direct control, but we aren't charging the retailers more
for the limited edition box.  I don't have a full list of all of the
retailers world-wide, but in the U.S. EB, Babbages, and CompUSA are
all participating at a minimum.  Availability may vary by store, however.
The release date for Quake III Arena is, as you know, "When it's done!"
Retailers are notorious for posting "official" release dates, but unless
it comes directly from id, it's just speculation.

10-19-1999

Activision just informed me that Quake II for the Playstation made its
debut on the UK PSX charts at No. 5.  The game was primarily developed
by a UK company called Hammerhead which did just a tremendous job on the
game.  They had a ton of assistance from us primarily via Tim Willits.
The official UK Playstation Magazine (UK OPM?) gave the game a rating 
of 10 out of 10!  If you have a Playstation this is a must-have game.

10-15-1999

To put this rumor quickly to rest, we don't have any tracks from Nine Inch
Nails in the current Q3A soundtrack.  Trent spent most of his time this 
year completing his latest album (you can still call them that, right?),
and is now preparing for touring, if he's not already doing it.

As far as what is really in the soundtrack, I'm going to wait until it's
finalized to go into details, but we have some great music from names
many people will recognize.

9-14-1999

If you have a copy of the new October CGW, turn to pages 14-15 to see
my nomination for "Game Ad of the Year".

8-26-1999

In the aftermath of the Ottawa Sun article, I was forwarded the link
below by Bernd Kreimeier:

http://www.salon.com/tech/feature/1999/05/06/game_violence/index.html

This is an excellent article that addresses how Grossman misrepresents 
the scientific data.  It's not a new article, but it's worth a read if 
the subject interests you.


8-25-1999

Well we've all seen the brilliant journalism of the Ottawa Sun (or
whatever it is).  If you'd like to email them your thoughts on
fairness and accuracy in reporting, the address (from their page)
is oped@sunpub.com.  After taking a look at the pounding they were
getting from many of you over on sCary's messageboard, I sent the
editor the following:

Mr. Oliver:

I'm sure you're getting a mountain of email from people angry about
the number of factual inaccuracies in the story, so I'll just trust
that you'll fix that tomorrow.  I wanted to let you know that you can
email me directly if you would like to fact check articles that discuss 
our games in the future.  

And if this hasn't been made painfully clear to you already, Grossman's
contention that Quake III Arena has been pulled from the market is no
more accurate than any of his other assertions about id Software or our
games.  We're looking forward to an enormously successful launch of 
Quake III Arena later this year.  You can see what we're working on for 
yourself at http://www.quake3arena.com .

Regards,

Todd Hollenshead
CEO
id Software, Inc.

Now if only someone could get Grossman's email address!

Update:  I didn't think it would take all you HaX0rZ long =) 

Behold! The email for the ring leader of the campaign to spread inaccuracy 
about video games so that he can sell more copies of his books to unwitting
law enforcement officials and yellow journalists (from numerous sources):

LtColDaveG@aol.com

I don't know if it's active.  And remember, while the Ottawa Sun certainly
failed to conduct even a rudimentary fact check, it's Grossman making the
comments that are quoted.
