Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
Last Updated: 09/25/2000 17:01:26 (Pacific Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9/25/2000

Big update on the 1.25 release:

We have received a number of emails and posted comments regarding
the 1.25beta point release.  We want to thank everyone for the
feedback and give you an update on the status of the current point 
release including the major issues that we are addressing.

We want to reiterate that 1.25 is a beta release.  We're looking 
for feedback from those people who don't mind providing it. We will 
be addressing many of the issues that have been reported over the 
last few days, and are planning another beta point release in the 
very near future. We will post the readme and documentation in 
advance of this next beta release so players can decide whether 
or not they would like to download it. You should only download 
and install the next point release if you are interested in providing 
feedback to id.  Please send all feedback and bug reports to 
bugs@idsoftware.com.

Mods - As everyone who has tried them knows by now, Mods are broken 
by the 1.25beta point release. This is an inevitable side effect of 
the changes that needed to be made in 1.25. If you want to continue 
playing Mods, please do not install the 1.25beta patch. Once we have 
a final point release, we will be supplying source to the mod authors 
so that they can have their Mods running again.  Many of the changes 
made in this point release are a direct response to requests made by 
Mod teams, so in the end both the authors and the players of Mods 
should really benefit.

Global Rankings - This is a cool new statistics and ranking feature 
that has been incorporated into Quake III Arena.  If you would like 
more information on Global Rankings, please check out the website at 
http://www.globalrankings.com/quake3arena/  As more information and 
documentation becomes available, we will pass it along and include 
it with releases.

Diagnostic Tools - The "lagometer" and some other diagnostic tools are 
broken in 1.25, but these will be fixed and enabled in the next release.

Physics - There has been quite a bit of confusion regarding the physics 
fix that was incorporated into the 1.25beta release. Simply stated, in 
the original Q3A PC release (using .qvms) there was an inaccuracy in the 
way player movement occured when compared to other versions of the game 
(including compiled .dlls and other platforms).  This was a bug. It is 
our position that all platforms should yield the same gameplay mechanics 
and physics.  We are working on a fix that would return the "feel" of 
rocket jumping and strafe jumping to the original release, while still 
"fixing" the bug in the .qvm builds.

CTF Scoring - In the 1.25beta release we made a modification to CTF 
scoring. While we will use a similar scoring system in Quake III: 
Team Arena, in the next point release we have decided to return to the 
original CTF scoring system that was included with the retail release.   

Known Workarounds - If you have downloaded and installed the 1.25beta 
point release and would like to go back to the 1.17 version until the 
1.25 version is final, you can follow these steps:
1. Delete the pak4.pk3 file located in the \baseq3 directory of your 
Quake III Arena install.
2. Download and reinstall the 1.17 point release which is available at 
http://www.quake3arena.com.

Demos - Prior demo files are not compatible with 1.25 and above. This is 
due to the change in the network protocol and encryption layers.

It is important not to use recompiled .DLL's as they are not compatible.
Once the source for 1.25 or greater is released, the .DLL's will need to be
rebuilt.

Also remember that even seemingly harmless mods like HUD mods can cause 
problems with the game.

We are also working on fixes for a number of smaller bugs that have come 
to our attention including various problems with sound, callvoting, global 
rankings and a few other miscellaneous items.

We will continue to keep everyone informed as best we can about progress.