Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11/22/2000 @ 9:45pm CST

http://pc.ign.com

Grab it. Enjoy.

We're putting our game servers up now. You should have no trouble finding them
with the k3wl new browser.

11/22/2000

Big news:  An early Christmas present from id.  The Team Arena Demo is going 
up tonight!  We don't have an exact time yet, but I'm expecting it to be
uploaded and go live in the next 3 hours or so (12 AM on the East Coast/
9 PM on West).  IGN.com is providing the initial bandwidth for us, so I'm guessing
their servers are going to have a hangover tomorrow ;-)  We'll have all
the specific information available about exactly where to download over the
next couple of hours.

This is the Windows version.  We *expect* to release the Mac and Linux versions 
next week.

I have a few notes to share with everyone at this time.  First, the Demo
is stand alone.  You don't need Quake III installed to try it out.  The file
size is around 120 meg (big, yes, but keep reading).  We are including one 
level that plays all of the new game types (Harvester, Overload, One-Flag) 
and CTF.  We are also including 2 models and 2 model heads.  The map contains 
3 of the 4 new powerups, one of the new weapons and one new holdable item.  
All of this is explained within the Demo, of course.

Also contained are all of the brand new UI items.  On this, you'll just have
to trust me that it's cool because I'd have to write a book to tell you about
everything included.  Mod authors will love what they're going to be able to 
do with it (I think Duffy is going to make an update about that over the weekend 
or early next week).  You should definitely play around with this stuff and check 
out everything we've added.  Menus, orders, team commands, setup options, etc. 
are all worth checking out because you'll want to save these in new config files 
for TA.

We realize 120 meg is a large download, so for those of you who have limited
bandwidth, we are going to release an avi file at a later date (also through
IGN) containing some of the new maps and features from Team Arena so that you 
can still check out what it will look like without overloading your modems.
We'll have more details on this next week.

If you have problems, please check the readme first for answers.  If you don't
see the solution there, you can email feedback on bugs to bugs@idsoftware.com.
Please don't email employees directly.

In the meantime enjoy the holiday weekend (if you're in the US) and have fun
with Team Arena.  I hope to see lots of people on our servers over the weekend.

10/21/2000

http://abcnews.go.com/onair/2020/2020Friday_001020_violence_feature.html

An excellent article  (thanks www.shugashack.com proving sCary *is* good
for something).  I'm going to get the scientific review and read it myself.  
As soon as I saw that silly "1,000 studies" claim I knew it would only be 
a matter of time before someone debunked it.

10/20/2000

If you're a professional or amateur game development team, you should
take a look at this.  It's a reference document for our technology
licensing program and contains a ton of information.

http://www.idsoftware.com/corporate/idtech/index.html