Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1/8/2001

We're testing a new beta server-side executable that stops the "Guard" exploit.
If you want to help us try it out, come and join on one of the following:

Terractf
192.246.40.83:27960


Harvester
192.246.40.159:27960


Oneflag
192.246.40.159:27961


Overload
192.246.40.86:27960


Tourney
192.246.40.86:27961 

We'll probably jump on the Terrain server here in a little bit to maybe play a little
id vs. everyone CTF and monitor the stability of the executable.

You don't have to download anything new since it's server only.  Just join and play.

If you have any feedback specific to the server patch, please email it to bugs@idsoftware.com
and put "New Executable Feedback" in the subject line.  Please DO NOT email id employees 
directly as your feedback will just get lost.

12/27/2000

Attention bargain shoppers!  Team Arena is on sale at Best Buy and CompUSA for
$17.99 in several areas of the US.  You should double check with your local
retailer to make sure the offer is valid in your area.  Pretty good way to spend
the $20 that Grandpa gave you in the envelope for Christmas, IMO.

12/21/2000

Linux beta is up and we have a Team Arena/1.27g FAQ up on www.quake3arena.com

Happy Holidays everyone!

12/15/2000

To pile on the Keen renaissance (with a nod to 3DR, Blues, etc.): look for upcoming
*new* Keen news in the not too distant future.  That's all I will say for now.

Also, TA should be on shelves today!  W00t!  We're going to be running a bunch of
servers at id and I already put up a Terrain server last night.  Have fun.

12/8/2000

Alice = Good!

Congrats to Rogue and EA.

12/7/2000

Team Arena is G-O-L-D!

We expect that it may begin showing up at shops like EB and Babbages as early as
Friday the 15th.  It may take a bit longer for stores like Best Buy, CompUSA, etc. to
get it in.  You should check with your local retailer to see if/when they will be
getting their supply in.

For customers outside of North America, we're going to do our best to get copies out
to you before Christmas, but I don't have any sort of solid dates at this point.  I'll
let everyone know as soon as I get this information.

If you haven't checked out the Demo or .avi yet, they're definitely worth the download.

We're still working on Mac and Linux, but Demos for those (as well as binaries) should
be available "soon".


11/30/2000

Big news once again:

Just in time for the weekend, we are releasing a new Quake III: Team Arena movie.
At just over 2 minutes, this movie packs in a ton of never before seen features 
from Team Arena.  If you've played the demo, this is a different clip than what 
plays in the main menu, so you'll definitely want to check this out, too.

IGN.com is once again going to be handling the initial bandwidth for the download.  
The download weighs in at around 20MB, so for those of you who were afraid the demo 
download would melt your modem, this makes it easy for you to check out some of the 
incredible new stuff that is in Team Arena.

Even if you have played the demo 18 hours a day, for the last 9 days, only taking 
breaks for bathing, food, and familial Thanksgiving responsibilities, you should 
still check this out as it contains scenes from our new large scale, terrain based 
maps.  That's right, included in Team Arena are a number of never-seen-anywhere-
before-now huge maps.  These maps include castles, watchtowers, rivers, bunkers, 
forts, mountains and just about anything else you could want in battlegrounds of 
this magnitude.

Enough said - go download the movie.  Believe me, it's cool.

IGN.com should have it up on their site around 6:30PM West Coast (9:30PM East Coast), 
and we'll put it up on quake3arena.com shortly after that.

Enjoy!

Also, the latest word on Mac and Linux demos is that they are "close".


11/22/2000 @ 9:45pm CST

http://pc.ign.com

Grab it. Enjoy.

We're putting our game servers up now. You should have no trouble finding them
with the k3wl new browser.

11/22/2000

Big news:  An early Christmas present from id.  The Team Arena Demo is going 
up tonight!  We don't have an exact time yet, but I'm expecting it to be
uploaded and go live in the next 3 hours or so (12 AM on the East Coast/
9 PM on West).  IGN.com is providing the initial bandwidth for us, so I'm guessing
their servers are going to have a hangover tomorrow ;-)  We'll have all
the specific information available about exactly where to download over the
next couple of hours.

This is the Windows version.  We *expect* to release the Mac and Linux versions 
next week.

I have a few notes to share with everyone at this time.  First, the Demo
is stand alone.  You don't need Quake III installed to try it out.  The file
size is around 120 meg (big, yes, but keep reading).  We are including one 
level that plays all of the new game types (Harvester, Overload, One-Flag) 
and CTF.  We are also including 2 models and 2 model heads.  The map contains 
3 of the 4 new powerups, one of the new weapons and one new holdable item.  
All of this is explained within the Demo, of course.

Also contained are all of the brand new UI items.  On this, you'll just have
to trust me that it's cool because I'd have to write a book to tell you about
everything included.  Mod authors will love what they're going to be able to 
do with it (I think Duffy is going to make an update about that over the weekend 
or early next week).  You should definitely play around with this stuff and check 
out everything we've added.  Menus, orders, team commands, setup options, etc. 
are all worth checking out because you'll want to save these in new config files 
for TA.

We realize 120 meg is a large download, so for those of you who have limited
bandwidth, we are going to release an avi file at a later date (also through
IGN) containing some of the new maps and features from Team Arena so that you 
can still check out what it will look like without overloading your modems.
We'll have more details on this next week.

If you have problems, please check the readme first for answers.  If you don't
see the solution there, you can email feedback on bugs to bugs@idsoftware.com.
Please don't email employees directly.

In the meantime enjoy the holiday weekend (if you're in the US) and have fun
with Team Arena.  I hope to see lots of people on our servers over the weekend.

10/21/2000

http://abcnews.go.com/onair/2020/2020Friday_001020_violence_feature.html

An excellent article  (thanks www.shugashack.com proving sCary *is* good
for something).  I'm going to get the scientific review and read it myself.  
As soon as I saw that silly "1,000 studies" claim I knew it would only be 
a matter of time before someone debunked it.

10/20/2000

If you're a professional or amateur game development team, you should
take a look at this.  It's a reference document for our technology
licensing program and contains a ton of information.

http://www.idsoftware.com/corporate/idtech/index.html