Name: Todd Hollenshead
Email: toddh@idsoftware.com
Description: CEO
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3/1/2001

Attention all Keen fans!  New Keen news!

ID AND ACTIVISION BRING COMMANDER KEEN TO 
GAME BOY COLOR 

id's Original Hero Blazes A New Adventure 

Santa Monica, CA - March 01, 2000 - id Software and Activision, Inc. 
(Nasdaq: ATVI) are teaming up this spring to release Commander Keen, 
an action-packed, comedic quest to save the cosmos for the Game Boy 
ColorÒ.  Commander Keen is rated "E," for "Everyone," by the ESRB.

Commander Keen marks a return to id Software's roots -- developing 
over-the-top, comic book-style adventure games for kids.  Based on id's 
original Commander Keen series on the PC, Commander Keen finds 
precocious 8-year-old superhero Billy Blaze on an all-new quest to 
save the world from his alien adversaries, the Droidiccus, Shikadia 
and Bloogs of Fribbulus Xax.

"Commander Keen shows a kinder, gentler side of id Software," Todd 
Hollenshead, CEO, id Software said.  "Like the original Commander 
Keen adventures, this is a game that appeals to the spunky 8-year-old 
hero in all of us - putting the 'id' back in 'kid.'"

But no one said saving the world before bedtime would be easy.  A side 
scrolling platform game, Commander Keen challenges players to save the 
world by finding super-powerful plasma crystals hidden on three separate 
alien worlds.  Each world contains several multi-level maps rife with 
progressively precarious puzzles. Throughout the adventure, Keen will 
encounter more than 35 different aliens as well as puzzles, slime pits, 
magical platforms, secret rooms and teleporters.

"An undisputed classic, the original Commander Keen games combined excellent 
level design and platform action for an unforgettable gameplay experience," 
said Larry Goldberg, executive vice president, Activision Worldwide Studios.  
"Our goal with Commander Keen for the Game Boy Color is to bring this incredibly 
satisfying and addictive experience to a whole new generation of console gamers."

Commander Keen for the Game Boy Color is being developed by David A. Palmer 
Productions for Activision and id Software.

###
©2001 id Software, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.


On another note, March 1 has always been one of my favorite days of the 
year.  No birthday or anything like that, it's just that March in Dallas
is basically when spring begins, equinox notwithstanding.  Really, no 
matter how you slice it, winter in North Texas sucks.  There are no winter 
sports or activities that people can actually play outside (snowskiing, etc.) 
to justify it and the weather is pretty much horrible.  We might still have 
a light freeze or two left, but, historically, winter in North Texas ends in 
February.  As fate would have it, today we usher in March in Dallas with 
drizzle, rain, and a high in the low 40's.

2/14/2001

Here's something Q3 fans should definitely check out:

ftp://ftp.gameloft.com/b4gmp3/mp3/quake_master_mix1644.mp3

MC Hawking is a Quake master!

*Important Update*

It appears we may have torched their FTP server with the direct link above,
so if that doesn't work check out http://www.mchawking.com/music.html and
download "Quakemaster".  Be warned: the lyrics are a bit explicit.

2/01/2001

In the words of someone who shall remain anonymous:

"id software is 10 YEARS OLD TODAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WOOOOOOOHOOOOO!!!!!
Happy Birthday to id and special thanks to our patron saint Lothar!!!!


HAIL LOTHAR!"

[the rest edited to protect the young and the innocent]


So, um, Happy Birthday to id and many more! =)

12/21/2000

Linux beta is up and we have a Team Arena/1.27g FAQ up on www.quake3arena.com

Happy Holidays everyone!

10/20/2000

If you're a professional or amateur game development team, you should
take a look at this.  It's a reference document for our technology
licensing program and contains a ton of information.

http://www.idsoftware.com/corporate/idtech/index.html