Account Name:  joes
Email address: joes@finger.3drealms.com
----------
6:00 PM 5/16/00

Work Stuff:

1) I'm in the middle of wading through the 700+ pictures I took at E3.  I spent today prepping them all for the web (the originals are around 350k each - far too large to post online).  I spent this afternoon resizing them and weeding out the bad ones, out of focus ones, and basically dupes, etc...  Tomorrow I'm going to construct the actual web pages for them all - I'm hopeful I'll get it all done tomorrow.  There's a ton of 'em.  I don't know what the final count that I'm posting will be, but it won't be all 700 of them, there's just too many of them!

2) My E3 commentary:

E3 was it's usual loud, boisterous self.  I personally was interested in only a few games, both of which were the Sims addon pack ("The Sims - Livin' Large"), and the Sims sequel (due out next year called "Simsville").   I told the people at the EA booth that if they were for sale on the floor, I'd buy 'em, and go home - screw the rest of the show.  :)  Some other games I saw that looked really awesome were Ritual's FAKK II (I watched their back room demo twice), Tom Hall's Anachonox (I spent a lot of time looking at this one, I can't wait - it's very "Tom"), and the aforementioned Sims games from EA.  I also caught up with 3DO to talk to 'em about their High Heat baseball game (yes - there's a new version due next year, too <g>).  I also got a peek at the Wolfenstein sequel, which looked pretty good.  Since Wolfenstein was what really got me into the industry (after this game was released, I contacted Scott Miller about the infamous "porn 1.3 version", and soon after became an Apogee beta tester, leading to me getting hired), I'm really interested in seeing a sequel - hopefully it doesn't stray too far from what made the original work in the first place.  Duke Nukem: Planet of the Babes looked hot, I hadn't seen it in awhile, and if you've got a PSX, you should check it out.  Max Payne looked really sweet - I hadn't seen it personally since the last batch of "photo-realistic" screen shots were released.  Oh my!  You're gonna love this one when it comes out - the Remedy guys are doing some totally awesome work.  

There were the usual trips to "Planet Failure" at E3 too, but I won't get into that.  

Of course, my main focus in being there was booth babes, although in my opinion, the quality of the E3 booth babe is down this year over 98 (I didn't go for the 99 show, can't comment).  The Eidos girls, which usually are the best of the show were a DEFINITE step backwards.  Also, that guy who hosts the Eidos booth really needs some new shtick.  It's getting old after 5 years of the same crap.

However, the Duke girls were by far and away the best girls on the floor - in my opinion, there was no comparison.  We had our usual Duke guy there (Andy LaCombe), and he did his usual awesome job.  I've got a bunch of pictures of these three - as well as other show babes, and other women I happened to see floating around the show floor.  I posted a few pictures on the 3D Realms site the other day, and I know some people have posted shots of the girls (as well as that video of jumping rope), but there's some I have that I guarantee that no one else has, including my single favorite shot that I took of the 750+ shots I took over the whole show.  This shot I call "Reaching for a pen".  You'll know what I mean when I post the shot.  ;)

However, the best part was the Gathering "lot".  The Gathering of Developers did have a small booth on the regular show floor proper, but the real action was across the street at their "Promised Lot".  It was awesome, and not just because of the fact that there was an open bar.  <g>  The general feel was great, and the fact that it was laid out with a huge tent, a stage where live music was (sometimes) played, and some massive billboards on the sides of buildings really got your attention.  If that wasn't enough, there were some massive Paul Stanley / Gene Simmons balloons on the top of the buildings too - they were quite visible anywhere near the convention center.  What was cool was the number of people I used to work with, or just know that were over here.  Was a great "gathering" (groan) of people.  Met several people I didn't know too.  I really can't say how cool this place was - I know I'm repeating, but I'm having a hard time putting my feelings for this into words.  Major kudos to Mike Wilson and his whole crew for putting this together.  I don't know exactly who was responsible beyond Mike (and I think Terry Nagy - I had already hit the open bar when I asked who did it, so I don't remember what I was told), but it was an awesome job, guys!

There were several celebs at E3, but my timing was bad - I didn't see too many of them personally, although I did see Green Bay Packers QB Bret Favre.  I missed both of the Star Trek guests (Voyager's Kate Mulgrew & DS9's Nana Vistor), as well as Regis Philbin, & Jay Leno (although Lee Jackson passed Jay Leno on the floor).  There were a few more, but I can't remember now who else was there (not counting the Playboy Playmate or other "babes").

That's about it.  The show did seem to drag come Day 3.  I really think that these things can be two days, and you can get everything done you need to.  There is a lot of stuff here, but not so much that I think you need three days.  But that's just me.


Non Work Stuff:

1) Last time I asked if anyone had a good quality video of the Bill Clinton comedy press video.  Well, I had several people tell me it's over at http://www.adcritic.com - check it out.  It's pretty funny.  This site also archives TV commercials (I picked up all the Wazzup commercials (except the newest one where the guy fantasizes about women going Wazzup), and one that ends with a pizza delivery guy (which for some reason Bud hasn't given 'em permission to post).  While you're there, check out the original (and by far and and away the best) Wazzzup parody - Superfriends.  Every other one to come after it is lame, except for the one with Duke Nukem in it, but only because they already say "Hey Duke" in there.

2) I'm buying a Tivo.  I spent a lot of time researching this thing, and I've decided to take the plunge.  I spent a lot of time reading through the Tivo areas on both the official Tivo site at http://www.tivo.com as well as the AVS Sciene Forum (located at http://www.avsforum.com/ubbcgi/Ultimate.cgi?action=intro ).  If you've never visited this place, check it out, it's a spectacular site full of information on various audio and video components.  I learned [b]A LOT[/b] about Tivo here - they even have a Tivo employee who hangs out on the forum.


CD's I'm listening to:

1) Billy Joel - 2000 Years: The Millenium Concert
2) Dio - Magica (This is awesome)
3) Heavy Metal 2000 Soundtrack
4) Black Sabbath - Reunion
5) Britney Spears - Baby One More Time

OK, I borrowed Charlie Wiederhold's Britney Spears CD to see if it's as bad as I imagined it to be.  The big single isn't too bad, but the rest of it is barely tolerable.  :)

And every time I mention Billy Joel I get flame mail saying "How can you like that".  Well, bite me.  I've liked Billy Joel since 1973 (he and Harry Chapin were the first people I really listened to musically), and I will always like him.