[idsoftware.com]

Login name: xian      			In real life: Christian Antkow
Directory: /raid/nardo/xian         	Shell: /bin/csh
On since May 29 14:12:01		4 minutes 56 seconds Idle Time
   on ttyp2 from underworld.idsoftware.com
Plan:


 I was talking to Tim, Bear and John Cash today, and got a great idea for
a QW mod. It's optional, but with the next release of QuakeWorld, the 
progs will support two new server vars.

 dq 1  (Drop Quad)
 dr 1  (Drop Ring)

 Eg: You picked up the Quad. You run around for 10 seconds before someone
kills you. You drop the Quad and it remains in play for 5 seconds before
someone else picks it up. They now have the Quad for the remaining 15 seconds.

 If no one else picks it up after you die 10 seconds into having the Quad, 
it dissapears 20 seconds later.

 Read: The Quad or Ring are never in play for more than the normal 30 seconds.

 The mods are running on Underworld (192.246.40.169). Thanks to Tarok, Zoid, 
and Bi||iard for their input.

---

 Ok, hopefully I won't get too many complaints, but here is how the new
spawn in logic works.

 It goes through the entire map and finds all spawn spots that don't have
any players within a 256 unit radius (derriving n available spots). It then
puts you into a random spot between 1 and n.

 *RANDOM* is the key word here (/me glares at Blue and Redwood =)

 Should there be any further suggestions, please e-mail me, but I think this
is the fairest way of determining spawn in spots.

 As usual, the mods are being run on Underworld (192.246.40.169) for testing.


---

 Wow! I just discovered the coolest thing in QuakeWorld (now that the double
damage bug has been fixed)... "Rocket Juggling"

 If someone with 200 health, 200 armour jumps towards you and you blast
them up high into a corner, fire rockets where they are going to land and
you'll pop them back up in the air again.

 I juggled someone 3 or 4 times before they died. Try it =)


 ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/bussys/winnt/winnt-public/fixes/usa
   /nt40/hotfixes-postSP3/java-fix

 Thank god... I was going insane!

---

*** Disclaimer: Opinions are my own and in no way reflect those of id Software

 This disclaimer does not cover misuse, accident, lightning, flood, tornado,
tsunami, volcanic eruption, earthquake, hurricanes and other Acts of God,
neglect, damage from improper .planfile reading, incorrect line voltage,
improper or unauthorized use, broken antenna or marred cabinet, missing or
altered serial numbers, electromagnetic radiation from nuclear blasts, sonic
boom vibrations, customer adjustments that are not covered in this list, and
incidents owing to an airplane crash, ship sinking or taking on water, motor
vehicle crashing, dropping the item, falling rocks, leaky roof, broken glass,
mud slides, forest fire, or projectile (which can include, but not be limited
to, arrows, bullets, shot, BB's, shrapnel, lasers, napalm, torpedoes, or
emissions of X-rays, Alpha, Beta and Gamma rays, knives, stones, etc.). 

