[idsoftware.com]

Login name: xian      			In real life: Christian Antkow
Directory: /raid/nardo/xian         	Shell: /bin/csh
On since Jul  5 22:01:49		2 days 2 hours Idle Time
   on ttyp2 from underworld.idsoftware.com
Plan:
 I would like to extend an invitation to 3D, First Person gaming developers 
(Rogue, Ritual, Raven, Valve, Epic, Apogee, Ion Storm, etc..) to help in the
creation of a new IRC network called 3DNet, by running IRCD's.

 The justification for this network is that we (the 3DNet founders) wish 
to offer a stable, high profile alternative to Undernet and EFNet for anyone 
who is interested in the 3D First person game genre. It would also offer a 
controlled enviroment to offer a platform in which to market and discuss
your games by you relegating control of said channels to whomever you want.
By running the servers yourselves, you don't have to deal with the "BS" 
associated with conventional IRC networks.

 The IRCD of choice for 3DNet, is the Undernet IRCD which we can provide to 
you and help setup. You will require a box running some flavour of Unix.

 We already have two servers attached to the network;

 idcube.idsoftware.com:6667
 bigmac.noc.best.net:6667

 with PlanetQuake due to sign on within the next 48 hours.

 The structure is pretty loose, with proposed channels such as #quake2, 
#sin, #daikatana, #halflife, #unreal, #prey, #qspy, etc... as well as 
seperate channels for each company for general discussions (#id, #ritual,
#raven, #ionstorm, #apogee, etc...) No pr0n, no warez, just games discussions.

 Should any developers be interested in contributing to the network, please
e-mail 3DNet@underworld.idsoftware.com should you have any further questions
or concerns, and one of the managers will get back to you.

 We'll wait for a period of two weeks to gauge response from publishers and
developers, and I'll post an update as to the future of the network then.

 Thanks for your co-operation,

 -Christian

PS: On a bit of a personal note, I think this would be a great way to bring
the game developer community closer together online.

---

*** Disclaimer: Opinions are my own and in no way reflect those of id Software

 This disclaimer does not cover misuse, accident, lightning, flood, tornado,
tsunami, volcanic eruption, earthquake, hurricanes and other Acts of God,
neglect, damage from improper .planfile reading, incorrect line voltage,
improper or unauthorized use, broken antenna or marred cabinet, missing or
altered serial numbers, electromagnetic radiation from nuclear blasts, sonic
boom vibrations, customer adjustments that are not covered in this list, and
incidents owing to an airplane crash, ship sinking or taking on water, motor
vehicle crashing, dropping the item, falling rocks, leaky roof, broken glass,
mud slides, forest fire, or projectile (which can include, but not be limited
to, arrows, bullets, shot, BB's, shrapnel, lasers, napalm, torpedoes, or
emissions of X-rays, Alpha, Beta and Gamma rays, knives, stones, etc.).