[idsoftware.com]

Login name: xian      			In real life: Christian Antkow
Directory: /raid/nardo/xian         	Shell: /bin/csh
Last login Wed Jul 23 17:04 on ttyp3 from underworld.idsof
Plan:
 In response to Myscha's .planfile update (go check www.quake2.com)...

 Is it just me, or did he stick a big peice of paper on his ass saying
"kick me" ? I don't think he's in any position to speak of ripping other
people off.

 I'll leave it at that.

---

 Big thanks to Tarok for helping to get monolith.3DNet.net 
connected to the network. It's also been added to the round-robbin
lookup as part of irc.3Dnet.net. We hope to have another two servers
connected by the end of next week.

---

 3DNet seems to be up and running quite well technically. Stomped has 
expressed an interest in attaching to the network, and I'm in the final
stages of getting Monolith's server connected (in what little spare
time I have...)

 In the next week or so, we'll begin accepting channel registrations. It 
should only take me a little under an hour to hack "bot" (3DNet's serverbot)
to allow registered users to use him for their particular channel.

 One thing that cannot be registered are major game channels (at this time
anyway). Channels like #hexen2, #quake, #sin etc... should be left opless.
We've found that opless channels really cut out alot of bullshit and that
channel participants can just relax and chat.

 There are usually oppers online at any given time of the day (check
#quake, #qspy, or #underworld) should anyone do something truly lame.

 3DNet is a bot friendly network and registration of a channel will require
you to run your own bot. Registration simply means, that up to three people
per channel will have access to "bot" should they need to get ops.

 Again, if you are interested in linking with the network, and are in
the computer games industry, drop us a line;

 IRC : irc.3dnet.net #underworld
 Mail: 3DNet@underworld.idsoftware.com

---

 Ok, now that my sister, Spazz, has left here to go back to Toronto, 
maybe Brian can get some work done...

 /me runs

 In all seriousness, things have sort of been unproductive over the last
few days with QuakeCon, my sister visiting from Toronto, and magazine people
coming in to do articles on Quake II. 

 QuakeCon was, uhh, big. I didn't hang out much due to work and prior 
engagements, but I did hang out with Avatar, H2H, Polish, Indub, and a few 
more people from EFNet #quake (that I didn't recognize) in a hotel room Saturday
night, sucked back a Corona, and watched Avatar smack the shit out of people 
in DOOM II. 

 Oh well, life is now back to normal, and back into "crunch mode" I go trying 
to get my part for Quake II done.

PS: As you've probably heard by now, Brandon "KillMe" James has officially been
hired on as a designer. He really kicks ass and I'm sure you'll like his work.

---

*** Disclaimer: Opinions are my own and in no way reflect those of id Software

 This disclaimer does not cover misuse, accident, lightning, flood, tornado,
tsunami, volcanic eruption, earthquake, hurricanes and other Acts of God,
neglect, damage from improper .planfile reading, incorrect line voltage,
improper or unauthorized use, broken antenna or marred cabinet, missing or
altered serial numbers, electromagnetic radiation from nuclear blasts, sonic
boom vibrations, customer adjustments that are not covered in this list, and
incidents owing to an airplane crash, ship sinking or taking on water, motor
vehicle crashing, dropping the item, falling rocks, leaky roof, broken glass,
mud slides, forest fire, or projectile (which can include, but not be limited
to, arrows, bullets, paintballs, shot, BB's, shrapnel, lasers, napalm, 
torpedoes, or emissions of X-rays, Alpha, Beta and Gamma rays, knives, 
stones, etc.).