[idsoftware.com]

Login name: xian      			In real life: Christian Antkow
Directory: /raid/nardo/xian         	Shell: /bin/csh
Last login Wed Jul 23 17:04 on ttyp3 from underworld.idsof
Plan:




 Friday: Got five monsters into the game this week, and hope to have 
another one programmed in later on tonight. They are really looking great.

 We'll be doing a code merge tommorow night, so hopefully, we'll be able to
start placing this batch of monsters into the game then. Really looking forward
to seeing what kind of evil AI John Cash has cooked up in the past few days.

 Things are moving right along and everyone's really busting their asses.

 With respect to the batch of screenshots that I released today, I just wanted
to answer some questions I saw people had on 3DNet #quake.

 frame1: The monster you see is monster_infantry (aka: Paul Steed). The weapon
         is the rocket launcher. This is one of Tim Willit's base levels
         which appear near the start of the game.
 
 frame3: The monster is monster_soldier (There are three different variations
         of this monster, with varying degrees of toughness and each of them
         has a different attack. The weapon that the player is holding is
         the grenade launcher. This is one of American's levels, The Factory,
         where the aliens chop up captured humans and turn them into cyborgs =)

 frame5: a monster_soldier with his back turned to you. This is one of Tim
         Willit's base levels which appear near the start of the game. Notice
         the gorgeous sky with the mountain range in the background.

 Hope this answers your questions. Back to work for me...

---

 Got two more monsters coded into the game last night, and I did a bit more
work on my last map. I think I can safely say, I've set a new record for the 
longest vistime on any single map.

 12.6 hours spent just in VIS on our Origin 2000 machine.

---

 I've pretty much finished all my map work for Q2 (architecturally anyway),
and now I'm working with John Cash in getting all the remaining game code
implemented and working (monster code, weapon code, etc...) It'll be refreshing
to work with standard C code in a real development environment instead of QC 
for a change =)

 I've also recieved a number of e-mails about DM 4.0 rules. Alot of people
like it for the simple "carnage factor" and yet others don't like it.
That's why it's called an "option". You don't have to run it if you don't want
to, but it's mindless fun once in a while. Still going through and tweaking
the odd rule here and there.

 On another note, someone sent me e-mail with regard to a deathmatch mod
called FairDM.

"Hi. I released a patch called "FairDM" a few days ago. (about 4
or 5) In it you had all weapons and unlimited ammo (sound
familiar ). I know this sounds crazy, but I can't help
myself from asking you to mention me in your next plan for
having the same idea. OK, that's all Mr Crazy has to say :).

[FA]Tex-Murph"

 It's funny how two people can think so alike.

 1:16am... My night is just starting... /me goes back to work.

---

 Man... It's talking me 3 hours to vis my latest map on all 16 R10k's =(
*sigh* But at least it's a pretty cool looking outdoor/cavy type area.

 Here are some of the more recent additions made to DM 4.0 rules (and for
everyone who e-mailed me about it, yes, it will be released with the next
version of QuakeWorld)

 More Deathmatch 4.0 Addendums:
 ------------------------------

	- You start with 250 health
	- You start with 200 red armour
	- Every time you pick up an enemies pack, you get 10 additional
	  health
	- For obvious reasons, weapons and ammo do not spawn
	- If you pick up enough packs to attain 300+ health, you automatically
	  attain a free "Bonus Invulnerability" *AND* "Bonus Oct". You lose
          all your cells during the duration, and when it wears off, you
          regain your cells, and are reduced to 100 health and no armour.
        - When you pick up a Quad, you lose all your armour, lose your cells
          but you do *8 TIMES* (OctaPower) as much damage. When it wears off, 
          you regain your cells, and are reduced again to 0 armour.
	- The grenade launcher is back (temporarily). We're testing some
          new rules due to popular demand.
          The grenade launcher fires every 1.5 seconds and you lose 2 health
          points for each grenade you fire.

 (Oh, and incase you are wondering WTF I am doing this, well, if it works out
we'll have a similar idea for a deathmatch mode in Quake II. Doing this as a 
proof of concept)

---

*** Disclaimer: Opinions are my own and in no way reflect those of id Software

 This disclaimer does not cover misuse, accident, lightning, flood, tornado,
tsunami, volcanic eruption, earthquake, hurricanes and other Acts of God,
neglect, damage from improper .planfile reading, incorrect line voltage,
improper or unauthorized use, broken antenna or marred cabinet, missing or
altered serial numbers, electromagnetic radiation from nuclear blasts, sonic
boom vibrations, customer adjustments that are not covered in this list, and
incidents owing to an airplane crash, ship sinking or taking on water, motor
vehicle crashing, dropping the item, falling rocks, leaky roof, broken glass,
mud slides, forest fire, or projectile (which can include, but not be limited
to, arrows, bullets, paintballs, shot, BB's, shrapnel, lasers, napalm, 
torpedoes, or emissions of X-rays, Alpha, Beta and Gamma rays, knives, 
stones, etc.). 

