Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Christian Antkow
Email: xian@idsoftware.com
Description: Jack of All Trades
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 01/08/1998 12:50:29 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 --- Jan.8.1997 (12:18p) ---

 Win 95 TCP/IP Fixes for Quake II

 Ok. After trading e-mail with a few people from Microsoft, and a few users
who were experiencing problems that were fixed yesterday, here's what you should do if
you are having problems running Quake II over the net (or getting ADDRNOTAVAIL errors).

 First off, if Qfecheck reports problems with your TCP/IP subsystem, 
there are a few scenarios.

 According to Microsoft's Knowledge Base article dealing with some errors
with VIP.386, VTCP.386, et. al, You should delete the following five files from 
your \WINDOWS directory if they exist. Again, delete the following files from
your \WINDOWS directory. * NOT THE \WINDOWS\SYSTEM DIRECTORY !!! *


VDHCP.386
VIP.386
VNBT.386
VTCP.386
VTDI.386


 According to the aforementioned Knowledge Base article, those files should be
in your \WINDOWS directory only if you've upgraded from Windows 3.XX. Due to 
a quirk in Win95, it will load the files in your \WINDOWS directory first 
instead of from \WINDOWS\SYSTEM where the Win95 version of the files reside.

 Also, an annonymous tech support rep at Microsoft passes on the following info;

As for the Winsock update problem, it could be an OSR2 issue.  OSR2 is 
notorious for not letting system updates overwrite files that are 
already on the hard drive.  The solution we would use here at tech 
support is to have the user rename their winsock.dll file and then 
install the wsockupd.exe file.  They also need to make sure they get the 
one in the sysbckup directory if they are going the 'rename and install' 
route.

A last resort would be to remove tcp/ip from the network configuration, 
shell to dos and rename all the files associated with tcp/ip, and then 
reinstall tcp/ip.

 Another solution is to completely reinstall your TCP/IP subsystem. This can
either be done in one of two ways.

 You can either remove TCP/IP under Control Panel/Network, reboot, then
reinstall from the Win95 CD, or another method is to download the Winsock 2.0 SDK for Windows 95 (1.4 megs)
and run the WS2SETUP.EXE program located in the SETUP directory.

 This has solved many of the problems users have reported with connection 
problems in Quake II. Please let me know if the above fixes your problems
if you were having problems before.
 
 What I'm listening to lately

 Frontline Assembly - "Flavour of the Weak"
 Pragha Khan - "Conquers your love"
 Loop Guru - "Duniya"
 Curve - "Cuckoo"
 DJ Ian's Electronic Revolution (One of my favorite club DJ's from The Limelight back in Toronto has a CD out)
 Ministry of Sound - Annual III
 Wumpscut - "Bunker Gate Seven"
 Mentallo & The Fixer - "Burnt Beyond Recognition"
 
 /me goes back to work