Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Christian Antkow
Email: xian@idsoftware.com
Description: Jack of All Trades
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 01/10/1998 19:18:24 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 --- Jan.10.1997 (7:05pm) ---

 Wacky Fix du Jour

 If you are playing with 3DFX based boards and are experiencing some
connection difficulties or general wierdness over the net with a modem
connection, make sure you are running the updated 3DFX MiniDriver for Quake II.

 I've heard reports that it's fixed some play issues in some cases.
For what it's worth, the updated minidriver will be included in the 
Quake II Deathmatch Pack "soon".

 --- Jan.9.1997 (10:50pm) ---

 If you are overflowing on connecting to alpha2.idsoftware.com, try
setting;

 "msg 2"

 In the console. This will only print any "say" message, and client
connect/disconnect messages. This should *REALLY* cut down the number
of messages you get.

 --- Jan.9.1997 (8:42pm) ---

 Quake II Server Load Testing

 Tim Willits has a version of an upcoming map, Base100(2.5 megs), ready to test out, 
and we'd like to do some serverload testing with this map.

 Please download the aforementioned map, and connect to;

 alpha2.idsoftware.com

 ... which will be running base100.bsp. Please note that you will need a 
system with 32megs of memory to run these ginormous multiplayer maps 
(The BSP is 5.2 megs).

 All our other Quake II servers are offline while we are testing base100.

 Be a part of history =) Join in on the biggest Quake II multiplayer game yet!

 NOTE: DO NOT redistribute this map in any way. 
This map is being released for the purposes of server load testing here at id.
There will be a final release of this map "soon".

  --- Jan.9.1997 (5:28p) ---

 Rant

 GODFUCKINGDAMNIT! Don't you just HATE new attacks?!?! First it was 
TearDrop... Now it's Bonk. Am I going to have to start doing REAL work
on a Linux machine that doesn't go down every 10 minutes because of attack du jour?!?!

 Of the four computers in my office, it's only the ones running NeXTStep and Linux
that give me the least amount of problems and each having uptimes in excess of 50 days.

 Microsoft: PLEASE FIX BONK ALREADY!

 --- Jan.8.1997 (12:18p) ---

 Win 95 TCP/IP Fixes for Quake II

 Ok. After trading e-mail with a few people from Microsoft, and a few users
who were experiencing problems that were fixed yesterday, here's what you should do if
you are having problems running Quake II over the net (or getting ADDRNOTAVAIL errors).

 First off, if Qfecheck reports problems with your TCP/IP subsystem, 
there are a few scenarios.

 According to Microsoft's Knowledge Base article dealing with some errors
with VIP.386, VTCP.386, et. al, You should delete the following five files from 
your \WINDOWS directory if they exist. Again, delete the following files from
your \WINDOWS directory. * NOT THE \WINDOWS\SYSTEM DIRECTORY !!! *


VDHCP.386
VIP.386
VNBT.386
VTCP.386
VTDI.386


 According to the aforementioned Knowledge Base article, those files should be
in your \WINDOWS directory only if you've upgraded from Windows 3.XX. Due to 
a quirk in Win95, it will load the files in your \WINDOWS directory first 
instead of from \WINDOWS\SYSTEM where the Win95 version of the files reside.

 Also, an annonymous tech support rep at Microsoft passes on the following info;

As for the Winsock update problem, it could be an OSR2 issue.  OSR2 is 
notorious for not letting system updates overwrite files that are 
already on the hard drive.  The solution we would use here at tech 
support is to have the user rename their winsock.dll file and then 
install the wsockupd.exe file.  They also need to make sure they get the 
one in the sysbckup directory if they are going the 'rename and install' 
route.

A last resort would be to remove tcp/ip from the network configuration, 
shell to dos and rename all the files associated with tcp/ip, and then 
reinstall tcp/ip.

 Another solution is to completely reinstall your TCP/IP subsystem. This can
either be done in one of two ways.

 You can either remove TCP/IP under Control Panel/Network, reboot, then
reinstall from the Win95 CD, or another method is to download the Winsock 2.0 SDK for Windows 95 (1.4 megs)
and run the WS2SETUP.EXE program located in the SETUP directory.

 This has solved many of the problems users have reported with connection 
problems in Quake II. Please let me know if the above fixes your problems
if you were having problems before.
 
 What I'm listening to lately

 Frontline Assembly - "Flavour of the Weak"
 Pragha Khan - "Conquers your love"
 Loop Guru - "Duniya"
 Curve - "Cuckoo"
 DJ Ian's Electronic Revolution (One of my favorite club DJ's from The Limelight back in Toronto has a CD out)
 Ministry of Sound - Annual III
 Wumpscut - "Bunker Gate Seven"
 Mentallo & The Fixer - "Burnt Beyond Recognition"
 
 /me goes back to work