Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Christian Antkow
Email: xian@idsoftware.com
Description: Designer
Project: Quake Arena
Last Updated: 10/22/1998 15:37:34 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Oct.22.1998 @ 3:00pm

 Some beta releases this afternoon;

q2-3.20beta-x86.exe
q2ded-3.20beta-glibc-5.alpha.rpm
q2ded-3.20beta-glibc-alpha-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz
quake2-3.20beta-5.i386.rpm
quake2-3.20beta-glibc-5.i386.rpm
quake2-3.20beta-glibc-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz
quake2-3.20beta-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

 Solaris versions are forthcoming.

 Here's the contents of the 3.20_Changes.txt for your perusal.


**NOTE:  Please note that 3.20 is a beta release.  This is an interim
release to allow wide testing of the new patch.
3.20 will fully interoperate with 3.19 servers.  You will lose previous
save games when upgrading with this patch, however.

We encourage testing of this new patch.  Please send any bug reports directly
to Zoid at zoid@idsoftware.com

3.20 Changes:
- Fixed a network problem where and oversize packet could cause a client 
  crash.
- Fixed the long standing Quake2 bug of where you would occasionally spawn
  or teleport and find yourself either looking straight at the ceiling or
  down at the floor.
- Changed it so that the function keys (F1 through F12) now get executed when 
  depressed during demo playback or attract modes.  This allows you to take 
  screen shots (F12) during demos and other features.  An example of other 
  features is a fast forward for demos:
      alias +ff "timedemo 1"
      alias -ff "timedemo 0"
      bind f7 +ff
  This binding will cause the current demo playing to zip into timedemo mode 
  while F7 is depressed, effectively acting like a fast forward key.
- Wrong packaging of 3.19 patch.  The Rogue CD has a 45k pak2 and vwep .md2 
  files in baseq2/players, but the 3.19 x86 patch we released has a 2.7MB 
  pak2.  3.20 has a 45k pak2 and the vwep models go in baseq2/players.
- VWep code has been added to Xatrix dll, new VWep models for the Xatrix 
  specific weapons (Ion Ripper and Phalanx) have been included.
- Rogue Linux game library was wrong version and had some unlinked symbols,
  this has been corrected.
- Occasional error of: "D_SCAlloc: bad cache width 16384" in software renderer.
  This had to do with surfaces to SURF_FLOWING and were transparent.  This 
  has been fixed in the refs now so flowing transparent textures now works.
- [Unix] Net_ErrorToString calls were wrong, was using %i and not %s resulting
  in random numbers being printed for error messages.
- Color shell mixing restored to the same blends as previous versions.  This 
  was changed in 3.19 for the new color shells the Rogue mission pack 
  introduced.
- Fixed a possible server crash in the new "playerlist" command.
- Fixed a case where a person joining a server could be invisible (left over 
  setting of SVF_NOCLIENT from previous spectator).
- Invalid pak files no longer cause a crash and are just ignored
- Fixed a 3.19 bug where linked models (modelindex2) who's modelindex was 
  greater than 0x7f causes the wrong model to be drawn (in some cases, the 
  world would be drawn twice).  This was the cause of many of the "extreme" 
  frame lag people were seeing in 3.19 on servers using old-style VWep code.
- Linux:  Complete rewrite of the OpenGL library handling.  This was needed 
  to cleanly integrate OpenGL extension checking.  Linux now supports 
  extensions such as multitexture and better dynamic loading of libraries.  
  It's cleaner now in that you don't have to preload hack stuff to use the 
  3DFX Miniport rather than libMesa3D.  The Linux version now uses the 
  gl_driver to specify the 3D library to dynamically load.  For example, to 
  use the lib3dfxgl.so miniport, one would now use:
      ./quake2 +set vid_ref gl +set gl_driver lib3dfxgl.so
  This change fixes several bugs that were apparant in the older method, such 
  as a segfault occasionally when connecting to a server with a different game 
  directory.
  The vid menu in the Linux version has been changed to reflect the new 
  options, the current list of supported video drivers are now:  software, 
  software X11, Mesa 3-D 3DFX, 3DFXGL Miniport, OpenGL glX, and Mesa 3-D glX,
- Railgun shots now go through gibs as well as other players.
- New server variable, "needpass" that can been seen with server browser
  tools such as GameSpy.  This variable indicates whether a password or
  spectator password is needed to get onto a server.  Bit 0 is password and
  bit 1 is spectator password. 
- Quake2 will no longer look for gamex86.dll in the main Quake2 directory.
  It will always load out of the game directory first.
- Players joining a server during an intermission are now moved to the
  intermission position.
- The "logfile" cvar has been extended with the following values:
	0 - don't log (default)
	1 - overwrite qconsole.log and use buffered writes
	2 - overwrite qconsole.log and flush write every line
	3 - append to existing qconsole.log and flush write every line
- Several minor bug fixes to the Rogue mission pack gamex86.dll
- Linux:  Rebuild of Rogue mission pack shared library to correct some
  dynamic symbol errors (is NAN errors).



---
"Gonna get the girl, gonna kill the baddies, and save the entire planet"
                                                  -Pop Will Eat Itself
---

*** Disclaimer: Opinions are my own and in no way reflect those of id Software

This disclaimer does not cover misuse, accident, lightning, flood, tornado,
tsunami, volcanic eruption, earthquake, hurricanes and other Acts of God,
neglect, incorrect line voltage, improper or unauthorized use, broken antenna
or marred cabinet, missing or altered serial numbers, removal of tag, 
electromagnetic radiation from nuclear blasts, sonic boom vibrations, customer
adjustments that are not covered in this list, and incidents owing to an
airplane crash, ship sinking or taking on water, motorvehicle crashing, 
dropping the item, falling rocks, leaky roof, broken glass, mud slides, forest
fire, or projectile (which can include, but not be limited to, arrows, bullets,
shot, BB's, paintball, shrapnel, lasers, napalm, torpedoes, or emissions of
X-rays, Alpha, Beta and Gamma rays, knives, stones, etc.). 

---
