Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Christian Antkow
Email: xian@idsoftware.com
Description: Level Designer
Project: 
Last Updated: 10/13/2000 20:26:37 (Pacific Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Oct.13.2000 @ 10:26pm CST

Quake 3 v1.25y Beta Stuff

 First off, thanks to all of you who chose to download and help test out the
latest beta release.

 An annoying issue was brought to light as a result of testing this evening, and
rather than have bugs@idsoftware.com be inundated with e-mails about this bug,
I thought it best to post an acknowledgement of the issue, and a temporary 
solution here.

 There appears to be a problem with your baseq3/q3key file being reinitialized
to a virgin state when you connect to an original 1.25p server with your 1.25y
client (they are incompatible.) The result of this bug is that Quake 3 will 
print "Invalid CDKey" when you exit the game, reload it, and try to connect 
to servers on the net.

 I was able to replicate this issue in-house and have mailed the programmers.

 If you wish to save yourself some aggravation while testing this release, I 
would suggest the following after you've ensured that q3key contains your
valid CD-Key;

- If you are an MS-DOS h4x0r, CD to your quake3\baseq3 directory and execute
"attrib +r q3key" at the command prompt. This will make the q3key file 
read-only (after you are certain that it contains your valid CD key.)

- If you are not comfortable using the command prompt, open up "My Computer"
and head over to the directory where you have Quake 3 installed. Open the "baseq3"
directory, right click on the "q3key" file. Select "Properties" and on the bottom
of the panel, you should see a "Read-only" check box. Check that, and hit "Ok" to 
apply the changes.

 We'll get this issue resolved in the next release.

 Thanks again for helping us test out this release, and please remember to mail
bugs@idsoftware.com if you come across any further issues.

 Cheers,

 -Xian




---

*** Disclaimer: Opinions are my own and in no way reflect those of id Software

This disclaimer does not cover misuse, accident, lightning, flood, tornado,
tsunami, volcanic eruption, earthquake, hurricanes and other Acts of God,
neglect, incorrect line voltage, improper or unauthorized use, broken antenna
or marred cabinet, missing or altered serial numbers, removal of tag, 
electromagnetic radiation from nuclear blasts, sonic boom vibrations, customer
adjustments that are not covered in this list, and incidents owing to an
airplane crash, ship sinking or taking on water, motorvehicle crashing, 
dropping the item, falling rocks, thieving lawyers, crazy ex-girlfriends, 
leaky roof, broken glass, Y2K bug, mud slides, forest fire, or projectile 
(which can include, but not be limited to, arrows, bullets, shot, BB's, 
paintball, shrapnel, lasers, napalm, torpedoes, or emissions of X-rays, Alpha,
Beta and Gamma rays, knives, stones, etc.). 

---
