Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Dave Kirsch
Email: zoid@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 10/29/1997 17:30:29 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Oct 29/97

I hope everyone is enjoying the new QuakeWorld 2.1 release.  As mentioned
before, its mostly just a minor bug fix release.

There's a sprite bug in the new GLQuake 0.96.  I'll have a new version out
in a few days that fixes it.  It's hard trying to coordinate a new release
of about twelve different versions and something usually slips through the
cracks.  :(

GLQuake and Q2Test for Linux are pretty much done.  I'm waiting for a couple
bug fixes in MesaGL that corrects some texture alignment errors and fixes
the colored lighting in Q2Test.  As soon as that is completed, I'll be
releasing GLQuake, GLQWCL, and Q2Test for Linux.  Q2Test will support
three rendering shared libs, ref_soft.so (SVGALib console), ref_softx.so (X11
windowed) and ref_gl.so (Console MesaGL w/GLIDE).  You can't switch between
renders on the fly unless you are running as root due to permission problems.
:(  Need some way to make a .so setuid. :)

In QuakeWorld, the pmodel and emodel tags are in, but I didn't realize that 
you could just connect with 2.00 and set these tags manually with the 
correct values.  I'm going to re-examine my position on this.

The issue of cheating has been a hot topic of late.  Hacking models or maps
seems to be becoming a major issue.  I've heard a lot of reports that Team
Fortress players are experiencing this with modified maps, such as changes in
brightness and wall placement.

I guess the ideal solution to the issue of model cheats is to have the client
send over a list of all the models with CRC values.  Then the server can 
check and log any differences.  But this is just trying to fix a sympton,
not the problem.

The issue of client side cheats is something that has always loomed over us.
It seems to be of late that people are really starting to hack things in order
to gain any advantage.  The whole issue of proxy bots is yet another problem.

I guess what it comes down it is respect and the ability to trust the players
you play with.  Anyone who cheats constantly will eventually be "found out"
and branded.  But where do you draw the line?  Many of the players I know
do change stuff like d_mipcap, v_kicktime, etc. to hopefully gain advantages
there.

I think the true player plays Quake and Quakeworld with nothing but the
default settings or those settings that are changeable in the Options menu.
I play with default settings, because I feel hacking various client variables
(much less model hacks!) change the game into something that isn't Quake
anymore.

The end of it is, if you feel the need to start hacking models or maps, using
proxy bots or going nuts on the console commands to give you that extra
"edge", think about what you are doing.  You are cheating, and all that
tells people is that you suck.

/// Zoid.