Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Dave Kirsch
Email: zoid@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 01/07/1998 18:29:45 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Jan 07/97

Here's a list of the current issues and workarounds for the Quake2 Linux
Release.

- Users having problems with Joliet filesystem extensions, mount the Quake2
  CD as follows (this is usually for users who have patched their kernel for
  FAT32 support):
    mount -t iso9660 -o ro,check=relaxed /dev/whatever /mountpoint
  You can also use the nojoliet option on the mount.

- You can leave the videos on the CD and just copy over the pak file.  To make
  the videos still work, run quake2 like so:
	quake2 +set cddir /mnt/cdrom/install/data
  replace "/mnt/cdrom" with the location your mounted the Quake2 CD.

- You really should run Quake2 as root when using the SVGALib and/or GL
  renders.  You don't have to run as root for the X11 refresh, but the modes
  on the mouse and sound devices must be read/writable by whatever user you
  run it as.
  Dedicated server requires no special permissions.

- X11 has some garbage on the screen when 'loading'.  This is normal in 16bit
  color mode.  X11 doesn't work in 24bit (TrueColor).  It would be very slow
  in any case.

- To run a dedicated server, you MUST put "+set dedicated 1" on the command 
  line.  It's not good enough in a +exec config file.

- The "Join Network Server" options on the Multiplayer menu is broken in this 
  release (Quake2 will die with an error).  use 'connect ' at the 
  console until a new release fixes this.

- Some people are experiencing crashes with the GL renderer.  Make sure you
  install the libMesa that comes with Quake2!  Older versions of libMesa don't
  work properly.

- If you are experience video 'lag' in the GL renderer (the frame rate feels
  like it's lagging behind your mouse movement) type "gl_finish 1" in the
  console.  This forces update on a per frame basis.

- Serverinfo displays NON-WIN32, next release will fix this.

- Dedicated server uses 100% CPU.  This is because it's looping and doesn't
  sleep.  I've already fixed this and the next release will address it.
  This isn't a problem in single player, since it always uses 100% cpu drawing
  the screen.

- Make sure that the Linux data files (such as pak0.pak) and the directories
  are all in *lower case*.  Quake2 always looks for files in lowercase.
  Also, make sure pak0.pak and the players directory are in the baseq2
  directory where you are running Quake2 from.

- When running the GL renderer, make sure you have killed selection and/or
  gpm or the mouse won't work as they won't "release" it while Quake2 is 
  running in GL mode.

- Save games seem rather broken.  I'm not sure what's up with this.  It
  may not be directly addressed in the next release.

- On systems with multiple interfaces/ip addresses, you can use the following
  option to specify what ip the Quake2 server should bind to:
    quake2 +set ip 

/// Zoid.

Jan 06/98

Quake2 for Linux has been released.  You can grab it at
ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake2/unix/quake2-3.10-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz
It has the same requirements as Q2Test, other than the fact you need to
own a released Quake2 CD.  It's based on the 3.10 Win32 version, so it's up
to date with all released patches.

I hope everyone enjoys this release and we'll see a lot more Quake2 servers
on the net running under Linux.

I'll probably release a Makefile in a couple of days that shows how to
compile the gamex86.so source (Linux's version of Win32's gamex86.dll).
The game source released in q2source_12_11.zip will compile under Linux
unchanged (the wonders of portable C code).  User created addons must be
recompiled under Linux to work--a good arguement for mod authors to release
source and write portable C code.

As usual, the Linux port is an unsupported product.  You can email me at
zoid@idsoftware.com, but I can not guarentee a reply (I'm very busy with
Q2 CTF at the moment).  But I'll help out where I can.

Have fun!

/// Zoid.

Jan 05/98

I haven't updated in a while, mostly because I've been very busy with a lot
of projects.  My current focus of course is on Quake2 CTF and on the Quake2
Linux port.

I've done a substancial amount of work on both.  I'm bringing Linux Q2 up
to version 3.10 today, so I hope to have it ready for you hungry linux
users Real Soon Now(tm).

Quake2 CTF is coming along great.  The art is going in nicely and looking
fabulous.  The code is pretty much done and I'm finishing up on the maps
over the next few days.  Map building is a love/hate relationship.  Waiting
for those eight hour vis times hurts.  But, it's coming together and I can't 
wait to play it. :)

/// Zoid.

Dec 03/97

As I mentioned in an earlier plan update, cheating is still a problem in
the current Quake community.  John Carmack and I want to take a look at what
we can do to curb some of the easier methods people are using to cheat.

I'd like to request that people email me with known ways of cheating in Quake
and QuakeWorld.  Clever hacks, pak file changes, etc.  Tell me how proxies
can give you that extra edge.  I'd like to collect this information and work
out ways with John in preventing or making it extremely hard to do.

Cheating is an unfortunate reality, but if something simple can be done to
lessen its impact, we'd like to do it.

/// Zoid.

Nov 18/97

Please note that I accidently left a little debugging code in Linux Q2Test.
When you fire it up and it says, "waiting...", just hit [ENTER].

If you are using GL on a 3DFX, make sure to kill the gpm process or you
won't have mouse support (gpm doesn't give it up when the 3DFX goes into
operation).

Overall, looks like a good release.  Anyone running it with 2.1 Linux
Kernels?  If so, does sound work?  Drop me a note.

/// Zoid.

Nov 17/97

Quake2 Test for Linux is now available at
ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake2/unix/q2test-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

It supports SVGALib console, X11 and MesaGL w/3DFX VooDoo rendering.
I hope all Linux users will enjoy this test release.

I you find any Linux specific bugs (that are not mentioned in the included
readme.linux file), please email me at zoid@idsoftware.com. 

/// Zoid.

Oct 29/97

I hope everyone is enjoying the new QuakeWorld 2.1 release.  As mentioned
before, its mostly just a minor bug fix release.

There's a sprite bug in the new GLQuake 0.96.  I'll have a new version out
in a few days that fixes it.  It's hard trying to coordinate a new release
of about twelve different versions and something usually slips through the
cracks.  :(

GLQuake and Q2Test for Linux are pretty much done.  I'm waiting for a couple
bug fixes in MesaGL that corrects some texture alignment errors and fixes
the colored lighting in Q2Test.  As soon as that is completed, I'll be
releasing GLQuake, GLQWCL, and Q2Test for Linux.  Q2Test will support
three rendering shared libs, ref_soft.so (SVGALib console), ref_softx.so (X11
windowed) and ref_gl.so (Console MesaGL w/GLIDE).  You can't switch between
renders on the fly unless you are running as root due to permission problems.
:(  Need some way to make a .so setuid. :)

In QuakeWorld, the pmodel and emodel tags are in, but I didn't realize that 
you could just connect with 2.00 and set these tags manually with the 
correct values.  I'm going to re-examine my position on this.

The issue of cheating has been a hot topic of late.  Hacking models or maps
seems to be becoming a major issue.  I've heard a lot of reports that Team
Fortress players are experiencing this with modified maps, such as changes in
brightness and wall placement.

I guess the ideal solution to the issue of model cheats is to have the client
send over a list of all the models with CRC values.  Then the server can 
check and log any differences.  But this is just trying to fix a sympton,
not the problem.

The issue of client side cheats is something that has always loomed over us.
It seems to be of late that people are really starting to hack things in order
to gain any advantage.  The whole issue of proxy bots is yet another problem.

I guess what it comes down it is respect and the ability to trust the players
you play with.  Anyone who cheats constantly will eventually be "found out"
and branded.  But where do you draw the line?  Many of the players I know
do change stuff like d_mipcap, v_kicktime, etc. to hopefully gain advantages
there.

I think the true player plays Quake and Quakeworld with nothing but the
default settings or those settings that are changeable in the Options menu.
I play with default settings, because I feel hacking various client variables
(much less model hacks!) change the game into something that isn't Quake
anymore.

The end of it is, if you feel the need to start hacking models or maps, using
proxy bots or going nuts on the console commands to give you that extra
"edge", think about what you are doing.  You are cheating, and all that
tells people is that you suck.

/// Zoid.
