Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Dave Kirsch
Email: zoid@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: 
Last Updated: 05/18/1998 01:47:29 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

May 17th/1998

I've been working all day on some of the problems in the 2.20 release. 

As with any major release, there is bound to be problems. I made some 
incorrect assumptions this time around, namely how many people had 
watervised their maps. This has certainly been causing problems for a 
lot of people. 

I'm working on 2.21. I hope to release it soon since there are some ugly 
bugs in 2.20 (such as random overflows on servers sometimes). There will 
be a server upgrade and a client one, but 2.20 clients and servers will 
be able to talk to 2.21, though I strongly recommend that everyone upgrade 
to 2.21 when it comes out. 

For watervised maps, vis data is no longer included in the map checksum. 
The 2.21 server turns off checksums BY DEFAULT. Server admins can 
enable map checksumming by typing 'sv_mapcheck 1'. This map checksum 
is almost the same as before, except that vis data is not included in 
the check. This means that maps that just has the vis/portal information 
changed (for watervis) will pass the checksum test. Maps with hacked 
textures, removed walls, or waterhack will not. 

Note, people believes this gives an advantage to GL users, and normally 
it would. But the server can control whether the GL user can turn on 
r_wateralpha (by setting it less than 1) or not using the watervis 
server variable. watervis 0 means that GL users can not enable 
transparent water, which levels the playing field. Quake was never really 
designed for transparent water and neither were the maps originally. 

So for admins that are using servers for strict competition should enable 
sv_mapcheck and leave watervis to 0 so that no one gets transparent water. 

There was a minor bug in the movement code as well. This bug was only 
really noticable on ctf4 up the steps to the rocket launcher. You sort 
of bounced up the steps. This has been fixed. 

There also seems to be an issues where the servers are consuming much 
more CPU than before. I think this may be related to some checksumming 
code I put in to defeat proxies. I'm changing these routines to use 
a more CPU friendly algorithm that should help on the servers. 

I'd like to apologize for some of the problems with this release. I can't 
please everyone, but I try to make the game as fun, secure and reliable 
as I can. QuakeWorld was meant to be a more net friendly version of 
Quake--that was it's goal. This is why I spent the time integrating 
movement code that matched the original Quake. I wanted to end the 
NQ/QW split that existed, since it doesn't serve anyones' best interest. 

Quake is a great game, and one I love to play just like everyone else. 

Common Problems and Solutions for 2.20
--------------------------------------

Q: I get a localid error and told I need to upgrade my browser, what 
is this?
A: You must use GameSpy 1.53 or 2.0beta2 with the new client.  This
was caused by some necessary changes for security reasons.

Q: I get a map checksum error.  It says my map doesn't match the server.
What is this?
A: You are using modified maps (such as watervis or waterhack) and 
because of this, your map doesn't match the one on the server.  Another
case is also when you have correct maps, but the server is using watervis
maps.  2.20 requires you to have the same map as the server.  For now,
it's probably best to stick to original maps (off your Quake CD) since
most server admins will be using the originals.  2.21 will address this
problem by having map checking off by default, and when enabled, not
including vis/portal information in the check.

Q: Some llama keeps pausing my game!  How do I stop this?
A: Pause is back in QW.  I put it in since it's very handy in 1on1
games and clan matches in case someone has a biological need or
other emergancy.  Server operators can disable pause by setting
"pausable 0" in the server.cfg file (or via console/rcon).
In 2.21, spectators can not pause the game.

Q: Water movement seems so slow!  Why did you change it?
A: Water friction was not probably implemented in QW.  The movement
code now reflects the original friction values of Quake.

Q: I keep getting overflow errors shortly after I connect to servers
running mods like QWRing.  If I try a few times, I eventually get in.
Why does this happen?
A: QWRing stuffs a lot of text at the client (almost 2K worth!). In
order for me to get it to work with 2.2 which has reduced packet
sizes for broken routers, I had to write some internal handling
for some of this data.  It mostly works, but there is a small bug
in it that seems to be randomly hit on signon.  2.21 servers will
fix this.

Q: My server seems to be using way more CPU than before.  I can't
run as many servers and when they max out, all my clients get
massive packet loss.
A: These seems to be related to some of the checksum code I put
in to defeat proxies mucking with stuff.  2.21 features a new
set of checksum codes that are much more CPU friendly.  Should
help out a lot.  I wish I could get more data on this, but
MSVC++5.0 just doesn't want to do a damn profile for me.

I hope that clears up some of the issues.  2.21 forthcoming.

/// Zoid.


May 16th/1998

I've released QuakeWorld 2.2.  I've also added a couple new ports for this 
release: Sun Solaris x86 and Linux Alpha for servers.  The new QuakeWorld 
should work through various broken routers that previous versions of 
QuakeWorld did not work with before.

QuakeWorld 2.2 is NOT COMPATIBLE with old versions (2.1 or earlier).

The changes focused on security, cheating and gameplay.  QW2.2 plays as
close as possible to the original Quake, but with the benefits of prediction.
My beta testers were very excited about the changes, and I hope everyone
will enjoy them.

Please note:  Team Fortress 2.6 currently doesn't work with QW2.2. The
Team Fortress team is aware of this and will be releasing a small patch
for servers ASAP.

As always, QuakeWorld is an unsupported product.  If you have any problems
tho, you can report them to bugs@quakeworld.net.

The release packages:

QuakeWorld Client For Windows 95 and NT

QuakeWorld Server for Windows 95 and NT




QuakeWorld Client for Linux i386

QuakeWorld Server for Linux i386




QuakeWorld Server for Linux Alpha

QuakeWorld Server for Sun Solaris x86

QuakeWorld Server for BSDI3.0 i386

QuakeWorld Server for Sun Solaris (sparc)


/// Zoid

May 05/98

As John mentioned, there is a security backdoor in QW and Quake2.  I'm working very
hard on getting the new releases of QuakeWorld and Quake2 out ASAP in order to
address this (the new releases also have several other features).

In the meantime, I'd like to thank crt for providing an interim solution.  He has
a web page up that
describes the problem and has a simple program that patches the binary to fix it.
I recommend that all server operators grab this patch until I get QuakeWorld 2.2
and Quake2 3.15 out the door.

/// Zoid.

Apr 19/1998

I've been quiet for a while, but that certainly doesn't mean I haven't been busy. :)

As Rick Johnson mentioned in his plan, I am tinkering around with a new QuakeWorld
version.  Mostly just to address some of the nasty bugs that have shown up over the
last few months and some security issues.  Also, I'm taking a stab at defeating
proxy bots, since they make life miserable.  Proxies that don't "mess with the data"
are still fine, tho.  Map checksumming is in now, so hacked bsps are out of the
picture as well.

Also, I'm using some of the new port allocation code from Quake2 in the new QW which
will fix some people using brain dead NAT routers.  I've also reduced the packet size
to 1400 bytes (from 7000), which is another fix for broken routers (ones that don't
handle fragmented UDP in this case).  The packet size change does break a couple
mods (notably, QWRing, which will have to be patched), but the change is for the 
better since it allows people to play who couldn't before.

And yes, the GLQuakeWorld sprite bug will be fixed.  Sorry about that.

I'm also working on the next Quake2 version (currently 3.15).  There are a lot of
new features in it, some of the most notable being QW player movement (air control),
autodownloading (with resume!), protocol optimizations for projectiles (the
hyperblaster won't lag you as bad anymore), flood protection, Server IP banning and
minor other fixes.

I also have a new version of Q2CTF in the works.  Minor bug fixes, plus a full
new competition mode with voted admins, map changing, timed match startups, etc.
The match mode will certainly help with clan CTF matches.  :)

I've also added two new operating systems for server ports:  Solaris x86 and
Linux Alpha.  This brings the total to five:  Win32, Linux i386, Solaris Sparc,
Solaris x86 and Linux Alpha.  BSDI will be support for the new QW release, but
not for Q2 (since I hate a.out jump tables).

As usual, there's no date set for the release of all this.  It's the old adage, "When
It's Done."  But I'm getting close to release on all of them. 

In other news, I will be attending Gamescon in Vancouver
on May 1st through the 3rd.  I'll be speaking at the event about all things Quake,
CTF and the online gaming community.  I'm lucky that it's easy to attend, since
Vancouver is where I'm living and working from.  Be sure to check out the
Gamescon homepage and sign up to join in the festivities.  
(I still can't believe m0user talked me into speaking at the event).  I hope to have a great time there in May.

/// Zoid.

Mar 11/98

The Sparc Solaris Quake2 dedicated server has been released at
ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/unix/q2ded-3.14-sparc-sun-solaris2.5.tar.Z
It includes a Makefile for building the game source for Solaris as well
(grab the Linux shar archive and run it to get the game source on Solaris).
Obviously, it only runs as a dedicated server and supports TCP/IP only.
Enjoy.  I had fun testing it as a coop server with a couple buddies.
It was a riot running around in coop taking out the Strogg.

The BSDI port has stalled.  Creating a.out jump table libraries isn't fun
and honestly, I looked around and couldn't find a good way to build the game
library for BSDI.  :(

/// Zoid.

Mar 06/98

Man, I didn't know BSDI wasn't ELF yet.  I've never built an a.out jump-table
based shared library before, nor do I know how to load one.  Anyone got
some tidbits on how to go about it (the man pages aren't too clear, and
mostly talk about system shared libraries).  I need to create a game
shared lib with one entry in the jump table (GetGameAPI).  Some example
code for building the library and loading it would be nice.

Got the Solaris Sparc port pretty much done.  Going to beat on it today.

I was considering writing a 'tournament' mode into Q2 CTF.  The server op
can set the server into a tourny mode and players pick teams, a timer counts
down and the game goes off and running.  Should help clan matches.  I'm
looking for ideas on how it should work (stuff like how teams are picked,
what the menu looks like, what options the players should have for setting
up the game and the game settings, etc).  Drop me a line if you have some
ideas.

Mar 04/98

The game and CTF dll source is up on ftp.idsoftware.com.  It'll be fun to
see what people will be doing with it.  I know everyone's been waiting
to hack the crap out of them.  :)

I've been working on the Solaris and BSDI dedicated server ports.  Hit a
snag with the Solaris version today that slowed me down (damn byte order
problems).  I hope to have them soon.

Currently, I'm only targetting the following platforms for the Quake2 server
ports:
	Linux i386 (server and client)
	Solaris Sparc
	BSDI i386

I've been asked about lots of other operating systems such as HP-UX,
Solaris x86, FreeBSD, etc.  The three I'm targetting are the most widely used
and I haven't had enough interest in the other platforms yet.

Note that mods will need to be compiled for each platform.  Fortunately,
the game code is portable and doesn't require any changes to compile on
any of the platforms.  I'll be including Makefiles for each platform and
precompiled game and CTF shared libraries.  This is a warning to mod authors
to make sure they write portable code--you're mod may end up on a Solaris
server someday!

On another note, a popular server that used to be up here on the West Coast
has returned.  BlackTongue was a very popular west coast QuakeWorld CTF
server.  It was offline for a month or so, but has returned as a Quake2
CTF server!  The host address is quake.threewave.com and it's basically
my home server now (since I get a 14ms ping to it on my ADSL connection).
You'll see me there sometimes along with lots of my Burning Chrome
clan mates.   Hop on for some CTF action sometime.

/// Zoid.

Mar 03/98

Quake2 3.14a for Linux is up on
ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake2/unix/quake2-3.14a-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz
This fixes the 100% cpu usage problem in the 3.14 release that was out early
this morning (I goofed during the 3.14 source merge, oops).

ThreeWave Q2CTF 1.02 was released as well.  This includes the bug fixes from
the main 3.14 source and adds the new player identification HUD display.
The HUD display came out really well--it only adds a single byte to the
network packets when it changes.  To enable it, type 'id' at the console.
The setting isn't saved across levels yet, but I'll be looking at it.

The timeouts for capture assists have been increased for the fact Quake2 is
a somewhat slower paced game.  This can result in double assists.  If the
flag is stolen, returned, stolen and returned in a very short period of time
and then a capture happens, a double assist can happen.  Each player will
only get one assist, but more than one player can get the assist now.

The power armor is changed in CTF.  Trying to kill a guy with 200 Power Armor,
200 Body Armor and the Disruptor Shield was REALLY rough.  Power Armor used
to absorb two damage per cell, this is now one damage per cell.  I did this
as a balance issue.

John Cash and I are going to be looking at completely rewriting the save game
system in a forthcoming release.  This is a major change but will offer many
benefits--save games will become platform indepenant as well as compatible
across minor version changes.  Not to mention getting them to load properly
under Linux.  Save games are still touchy under Linux and will sometimes
segfault on load.  This is due to the original design of the save game system,
unfortunately.  The rewrite will require a substancial change the the
game source, so we'll probably be re-releasing it again later on.

Cash and I are also planning to release the 3.14 and Q2CTF 1.02 source
either later today or tomorrow pending on how stable the 3.14 release turns
out.  We've been holding it so that you guys get one major update and not
half a dozen little ones--I've had enough fun trying to keep the Linux version
sync'd with the main code over all these minor upgrades.  It's alot easier
to get one major upgrade than lots of smaller ones.

I'm hoping to put together the Solaris and BSDI dedicated servers later
today or tomorrow so we can get some more servers out there.

Sorry to keep pumping out quick releases like this, but it seems to be
the best way to get stuff out there and tested and fixed.

/// Zoid.

Feb 20/98

Wow, it's finally out.

Q2 CTF is the result of about two and half months of work.  I'd like to
thank the beta testers for working out most of the bugs (the release seems
to be pretty stable 'cept for the server crashing problem that isn't
Q2 CTF specific), Kevin, Adrian and Paul at id for putting out some amazing
art and models for the pak, and Tom 'Bjorn' Klok for putting together
some kick ass grapple sounds.

There only seems to be two major issues in Q2 CTF--one being if someone
has the cyborg model they appear as the default male/grunt guy so you have
no idea what team he's on.  The other is aliases for grapple switch/fire,
unlock/switch weapon back don't seem to work well.  You get stuck to the
wall.  I've fixed the grapple one and I'm working on the model/skin one
(just politely ask the player to switch to using either the male or
female models when playing for now).

I'm going to hold off on any patches and the Q2 CTF game source code release
until I see how Q2 CTF shakes down over the next few days.  Want to make
sure I cover any bugs that pop up over the next few days and release
a 1.01 server dll and source in one shot.

As for Linux, I'm working on a point release for it right now.  I've already
fixed the save game problem that plagued Linux 3.10.  I'm working on fixing
some of the security problems mentioned on rootshell--quake2 will refuse
to run if it's setuid since loading shared libraries under that condition
is evil and bad.  You will have to su or login as root to run the SVGALib
(soft) or MesaGL (gl) renderers.  Since they only work on the system console
there isn't much problem with that.  As usual, the X11 version doesn't
require any special permissions.  This isn't an ideal solution.  The ideal
solution is for the next GLIDE that uses /dev/3dfx so you don't need root
to do 3DFX GL stuff, and for software, supporting a ref_ggi that doesn't
require root.  These won't be in my next release, but I'm still planning
a ref_ggi in the near future.

Hope everyone enjoys the new release!  It's amazing to see all the Q2 CTF
servers popping up and people having a blast on them.

/// Zoid.
