Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Dave Kirsch
Email: zoid@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: 
Last Updated: 09/11/1998 15:00:16 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sep 11th/1998

Quake2 3.19 Solaris Dedicated Server Release
--------------------------------------------

I've released the server ports of Quake2 3.19 for Sun Solaris based systems
(both Sparc and X86).  They are available at:

q2ded-3.19-i386-sun-solaris2.5.1.tar.Z

Quake2 for Solaris x86 2.5.1 Systems or later.



q2ded-3.19-sparc-sun-solaris2.5.1.tar.Z

Quake2 for Solaris Sparc 2.5.1 Systems or later.



/// Zoid.


Sep 10th/1998

Quake2 3.19a Linux Release
--------------------------

Damn, I hate it when I screw up.

I missed including an object file in the gamei386.so for the 3.19 Linux builds.
This results in a server crash if a spectator tries to go into camera mode.
The server will die with an unresolved symbol (GetChaseTarget) since I forgot
to link the camera code in.  Sorry.

This requires rebuilding the kit.  I've put together new 3.19a set of builds.
The only change is a relink to include the missing object.  This doesn't
affect players much, but does affect people running servers.

New kits:

quake2-3.19a-2.i386.rpm

Quake2 for i386 libc5 Systems (RedHat 4.x, Slackware, et al.) in RPM format.



quake2-3.19a-glibc-2.i386.rpm

Quake2 for i386 glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in RPM format.



quake2-3.19a-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

Quake2 for i386 libc5 Systems (RedHat 4.x, Slackware, et al.) in TAR format.



quake2-3.19a-glibc-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

Quake2 for i386 glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in TAR format.



q2ded-3.19a-glibc-2.alpha.rpm

Quake2 Dedicated Server for alpha glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in RPM format.



q2ded-3.19a-glibc-alpha-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

Quake2 Dedicated Server for alpha glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in TAR format.



/// Zoid.

Sep 9th/1998

Quake2 3.19 Linux Release
-------------------------

Quake2 3.19 for Linux has been released.  This release features support
for two different OpenGL drivers:  the 3DFX OGL Miniport (which has been
ported to Linux) and glX based OpenGL implementations.  The 3DFX Miniport
works by preloading the new lib3dfxgl.so library before the Mesa 3-D library
gets loaded.  The new ref_glx.so rendering shared object handles glX
implementations.

I'd like to get feedback on the new rendering modes.  Lemme know if glX
works with other GL implementations than Mesa 3-D, and how much of a difference
using the 3DFX Miniport (lib3dfxgl.so) over the Mesa 3-D stuff makes for you.

I don't have multitexture working with the lib3dfxgl.so yet on multi-texel
cards (such as the VooDoo2), but I'm working on it and hope to have it
ready for a next release.

Quake2 dedicated servers for Solaris Sparc and Solaris x86 will be 
forthcoming probably tomorrow.

Here's the release files:

quake2-3.19-1.i386.rpm

Quake2 for i386 libc5 Systems (RedHat 4.x, Slackware, et al.) in RPM format.



quake2-3.19-glibc-1.i386.rpm

Quake2 for i386 glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in RPM format.



quake2-3.19-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

Quake2 for i386 libc5 Systems (RedHat 4.x, Slackware, et al.) in TAR format.



quake2-3.19-glibc-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

Quake2 for i386 glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in TAR format.



q2ded-3.19-glibc-1.alpha.rpm

Quake2 Dedicated Server for alpha glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in RPM format.



q2ded-3.19-glibc-alpha-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz

Quake2 Dedicated Server for alpha glibc (libc6) Systems (RedHat 5.x, et al.) in TAR format.



/// Zoid.


Aug 28th/1998

QuakeWorld 2.30 Release
-----------------------

The long awaited Quakeworld version 2.30 has been released.  Head over to
http://www.quakeworld.net/
for download information.  The main archive for QuakeWorld can be found at
ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quakeworld/

2.30 doesn't introduce a lot of new features over 2.29 (the most notable is 
the packet loss meter on the scoreboard), but mostly consists of "behind the
scenes" fixes from the 2.29 BETA.

All servers should upgrade to 2.30.  This will end the current situation
of 2.1, 2.21 and 2.29 server differences.  The 2.30 version covers all
the bases and offers all the functionality of the previous versions.

Assuming that no major bugs show up in this 2.30 release (one can only
hope murphy doesn't rear his ugly head), this will probably be the last
QuakeWorld release.  QuakeWorld has been an amazing project from John
Carmack's early origins, to over a year of tweaking at Jack 'morbid' Mathews
and my hands.  It is one of the most complete and best first person internet 
gaming experience available today.  It's been a pleasure working on it and
keeping in contact and participating with the thousands of players.
Thanks to all for your feedback and requests in helping me build a great
product.

/// Zoid.

Aug 14th/1998

I have received more than enough beta tester requests.  Thanks for the
great reponse everyone!  But, please, my mailbox is going to explode.  :)

/// Zoid.


Aug 13th/1998

I've been doing some work on the Linux ports of Quake and Quake2.  There are
several different versions floating around out there with some problems in
each and some outstanding bugs.  I'm ratifing all the ports to use a common
set of code for video, audio and input.  I'm also adding some new support
such as glX support for GLQuake/Quake2 ref_gl so that there will be a version
of GLQ/Q2 ref_gl that is not dependant on the fxMesa code in Mesa 3-D and
should work with all GL renderers that are available for Linux (tho it isn't
playable without hardware support).  I'm also working on building glibc5
versions of the executables as well.  I plan to release both libc5 and glibc
versions of the binaries in the future.

These new glX based versions obselete the use of qkHacklib.

I've also ported 3DFX's OpenGL miniport (GLQuake driver) for Linux.  
The miniport is implemented as a lib replacement for libMesaGL.so that 
emulates the fxMesa...() interface.  It's faster than Mesa 3-D on
lower end CPUs right now, and will support multitexture on the VooDoo2s.
Mesa 3-D 3.0 also supports multitexture, so it will be interesting to
compare the speed differences between the two.

My drivers support list looks like this:

SQuake/Quake2 ref_soft.so:
- requires svgalib, preferably 1.3.0 or later.  Console only.  Requires root
permissions (setuid).

Quake.x11/Quake2 ref_softx.so:
- X11 based software rendering, requires X11.  Doesn't need root if
/dev/audio is writable.

GLQuake/GLQuake2 ref_glfx.so:
- requires SVGALib for keyboard/mouse input, Mesa 3-D with fxMesa support 
compiled in.  Only runs at the console.  This version requires svgalib
1.3.0 now.  Still requires root for both svgalib and glide.
(note that ref_gl.so will be glX based now and a new ref_glfx.so will
be for old svgalib/fxMesa hardwired support).

GLQuake.glx/GLQuake2 ref_gl.so:
- glX based and uses X11 for keyboard/mouse input.  This version should work 
with all existing GL/glX implementations for Linux.  Vendors of Hardware 
GL/glX implementations for Linux should contact me about testing with their
implementation.  This currently requires root with Mesa 3-D because of
the glide depenancy, but other hardware GL/glX implementations should not.
You have to do a 'export MESA_GLX_FX=fullscreen' to hack Mesa 3-D into
using the 3DFX instead of software rendering for now.

I am investigating support for GGI as well, but haven't done any 
implementations yet.  Any GGI guys wanna gimme a hand in this?

I'm planning to release rpm installs of the new versions of Quake/Quake2
in the future that auto-install in /usr/games/quake and /usr/games/quake2
as needed.

One of the reasons for this plan update is I need some beta testers to help
in testing these implementations.  I need beta testers with the following
requirements:

	- Own a copy of Quake and/or Quake2
	- Be able to test software and GL renders
	- Be able to test libc5 and glibc versions
	- Report bugs and retest new versions.

Please note, a beta tester is NOT someone who gets to play with stuff before
other people do.  They are someone who wants to help out in the development
and evolution of Quake for Linux.

If you feel you have the ability to run this new code and help out in finding
and eliminating bugs, please drop me a line and I'll add you to the beta
tester list.

/// Zoid.
zoid@idsoftware.com


Aug 1st/1998

I've released the new Q2CTF 1.09BETA upgrade at

ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake2/ctf/beta/q2ctf109beta.zip

This version features the new competition mode, server map rotation,
remote admin functions, elections for map changing, and many other
features.  This is a SERVER ONLY upgrade.  Players (clients) do not need
to download this.

Server admins:  By default the mod runs just like 1.02 without the new
features, if you want to make the optional competition mode available to
players, add "set competition 1" to your server.cfg start up file.
Also, you may want to enable elections by putting "set electpercentage 66"
since this allows users to vote for map changes and giving trusted players
admin access (much like the competition mods for Quake).

As mentioned before, the user manual for the new version is available at
http://www.idsoftware.com/q2ctf
The user manual covers all the new features of this release.

This is a beta release, so there may be some problems.  I invite feedback
on the release from both server admins and players.

Hope everyone enjoys this new release!

/// Zoid.
zoid@idsoftware.com


Jul 30th/1998

Linux Stuff
-----------

While doing some Linux work, I've been wondering about some library issues.

Currently, all current Linux Quake, QuakeWorld and Quake2 releases are based 
off the (old) libc5 stuff.  I'm planning to support glibc in future versions.
I'm wondering if I should still support libc5 versions as well, or convert
everything over to glibc support and drop support for old libc5 stuff.

Most of the Linux community is moving towards glibc and libc5 stuff will
be pretty much obselete in the future (much like the a.out to ELF migration).

So, I'm asking for input on whether I should continue to support libc5
binaries.  Drop me a note and let me know.

Q2CTF Stuff
-----------

The Quake2 server at satan.idsoftware.com:27913 is running the new Q2CTF
version 1.09BETA.  This version features stuff such as server map rotation,
elections for remote admin, map warping, and a full tournament mode. 
We're going to let it run on Satan for a day to beat on it and if things go
well, I'll be releasing the new beta version publically probably tomorrow.

The new code is a server only upgrade. A full manual that covers all of Q2CTF
including the new server options and the competition mode is available
at http://www.idsoftware.com/q2ctf/.

Other stuff
-----------

In other news, I'm working on the official QuakeWorld 2.3 version that
clears up some bugs found in the 2.29 beta (which is why it was a beta).  I'm
liking the idea of doing public betas such as I did with 2.29--the feedback
and testing was much more useful this time around than using closed beta
testers.  I took some heat from people complaining about the different
versions (and how they were not compatible), but overall the response has
been very positive.

I'm also working on Quake2 3.18.  This version will address some bugs in
3.17 (*cough* water surface friction *cough*) and offer some new features.
A new Quake2 release is needed for the upcoming Rogue mission pack, Ground
Zero, so I'll try to tie it all into one release.  Other stuff in 3.18
is server controlled air acceleration, server specific map rotation, and
other minor features that makes life easier for server admins and players.

/// Zoid.
zoid@idsoftware.com


Jul 13th/1998

I've released a public BETA of QuakeWorld 2.29.  This release is not 
compatible with previous versions.  Please note that this is a beta only
release and not meant for general use.

You may get the BETA from:


ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quakeworld/beta/qw229BETA.zip


This 2.29 BETA release contains servers and clients for Windows (Win32) and
Linux i386 ONLY.

I'm looking for bug reports and suggestions about this new release.  This
2.29 version should address the problems that were present in the 2.21 
release.  Once the beta test is finished (length depends on what problems 
are found, etc), I will release a 2.30 public version.

Here is the list of changes:

- 2.1 movement code mostly restored, but sv_friction is still 4 (like NQ)
  and the gravity application matches NQ.  This should fix some bugs on maps
  people saw in 2.21 and fix some other errors.
- Complete rewrite of the reliable data handling.  NO MORE OVERFLOWS.
- Client to Server (from you to the server) data is about 25% less bandwidth
  using delta compression.  This means you can bump up your cl_maxfps by about
  20%.  This will have a minor impact on lag.
- QuakeWorld now allows one external command packet until server connection.
  This makes QPlug work again as well as older versions of QuakeSpy/GameSpy.
- In GLQWCL, the size of the eyes.mdl is double sized.  In GL, the default
  eyes model was much, much harder to see than in software.  This should
  help even it out.
- New spectator camera.  A 'through the eyes' view of the player you are
  tracking.  To enable this, type "cl_chasecam 1" when in spectator mode and
  chasing a player.

/// Zoid.
zoid@idsoftware.com

May 31st/1998

Quick note:  If you get "File not found" during the download process on a
server, that means the server doesn't have the file, so it can't download it
to you.  Customs player models and skins have to be on the server in order for
you to download them.  The message will say, "Server does not have this file."
in the 3.16 version.  If you have a nifty model, talk to the server operator
who runs favorite server so he can put it online so people can download it.

I'm working away on the 3.16 code and I noticed some interesting things
about downloading.  Most of the rest of this plan will deal with
issues of interest to mod authors for Quake2 who want to make their
mods downloadable.

I noticed in 3.15 that pics download (the stuff in the pics dir, usually
PCX files) wasn't working.  So I fixed it and noticed something since I
was using my own Q2CTF for testing.  Most of the Q2CTF pics were downloaded,
but a few weren't.  Mostly the stuff dealing with the TECH powerups (runes).
I also noticed that the various sound effects weren't downloaded, either.
Curious, I investigated.

I do list all the model, sounds and pics for the TECH powerup items in the
items array in g_item.c, so I wondered why they weren't download.  Took me a
second to think about it then I realized something.  The models, sound and
pics for the TECHs weren't precached!  This is because the TECHs are 
spawned at _after_ the map loaded and didn't go through the spawning 
functions of normal items such as weapons and ammo (the TECHs are not 'placed'
in the map like regular items).  Because of this, their data wasn't precached.

Obviously, one should consider this a bug, but it worked.  It worked because
gi.soundindex, gi.imageindex and the like notice when you ask for a sound that
doesn't exist and will automatically 'on the fly' precache them.  This has
happened after the download phase when the client connects, so he never gets
them.  What I should have done is precache the various models, sounds and pics
for the TECH powerups in the worldspawn function.  This would ensure they were
loaded up before client entered the game.

Note, that if a client connected to a game in progress, where people had been
using the various tech powerups and played their sounds, they would be in the
precache list (by being added later) and would get downloaded.  This is a
small bonus, I suppose.

Another thing to watch for is status bar pics.  The HUD scripts let you
reference various PCX files directly using the 'picn' keyword.  These images
are not precached and won't be downloaded.  So make sure to precache them in
the worldspawn function to ensure clients download the necessary pics and
don't get spammed with 'Can't find pic blah.'

Now that pics downloading actually works in 3.16, I'm going to be curious to
see what sort of custom HUD displays people come up with on their servers,
which people will automatically download as needed.  Since the pcx files are
quite small, should be very easy to build custom HUDs. Oh, to make sure people
aren't polluting the name space for pics, you should reference them in a
subdirectory.  For example, if you were making a mod called 'SNARF!', you
could put the pics in pics/snarf/blah.pcx.  This obviously doesn't apply if
you have your own game directory off the main quake2 directory.

You could even have some custom menu graphics for your mod in a PCX file
and have it downloaded.  Make it unique rather then everyone (including
myself) using the default inventory window.

I also fixed the autodownload so it downloads the seperate skin files for
models (can't believe I missed that either).

3.16 is coming along nicely and should be ready soon.

/// Zoid.


May 30th/1998

I'm working on a Quake2 3.16 version that addresses the issues that showed up
in 3.15.  There's good news and bad news.

I'll start with the bad news:

There is a server bug in the 3.15 code in respect to the packet checksumming
between server and client.  Many people have experienced it by connecting to
a server and being 'stuck' and can't move.  This is especially bad when
connecting to servers from different platforms (win32 vs linux at this time).

Because of this bug, 3.16 WILL NOT BE COMPATIBLE WITH 3.15 SERVERS.

I sincerely apologize about this, but it was unavoidable.  I endeavour to make
sure bugs like this never happen, but sometimes it slips through the cracks.  
The bug is randomly hit (due to its nature) so it didn't turn up in testing.

The good news:

Because I'm replacing the checksum code, I've switched to a much less CPU 
intensive algorithm.  Dedicated servers should use about 20% less CPU with
ten clients.  This will allow more players on a server in the future.

3.16 also includes a new setup menu in the Multiplayer/Player Setup that allows
the user to customize what he wants to download.  You can set it to just 
download maps and not player models for example.  This is nice in that you don't
spend time downloading player models and skins that you don't want or need.

The availability of the gl_modulate command in multiplayer has been restored.

Some notes about 3.15/3.16:

- Pings look higher, but the actually aren't.  3.14 and earlier versions always
undervalued pings.  3.15 calculates 'correct' ping times and includes the full
round trip time and your frame time in milleseconds.  3.15 pings are much, much
more accurate.

- Hentai has put out a new version of the VWep pack specific for 3.15 that
touches up some animations, etc.  
It's available at http://www.telefragged.com/vwep
A note to mod authors:  specially handling of Vwep is now built into the EXE
for 3.15/3.16 and requires a small game.dll change for full usage.  Once I get
3.16 out the door, I'll be releasing the specs and changes to the game.dll
source.  I moved it into the EXE so that special handling for models without
vwep automatically use the weapon.md2 and you don't get ugly triangle diapers
on players.

3.16 is only a new quake2.exe.  The same game.dll and other files are unchanged
from 3.15.  This means that 3.15 save games will not be affected.
The 3.15 checksum bug is the major reason why I don't have other platforms
(Solaris Sparc, Linux Alpha and Solaris x86) out yet.

Again, I'd like to apologize with the forced upgrade 3.16 will cause.  I'll
try to make sure it doesn't happen again.  I'll be working very hard on getting
3.16 out tomorrow for ALL platforms.

/// Zoid.


May 29th/1998

I hope everyone is enjoying Q2 3.15.  Some of the new features of the release 
should make Quake2 a lot more fun.

Of course, with any release, there's bound to be a little problem show up.
In this case, the Linux version in server mode fails packet checksums in some
cases.  (This results in your joining a linux server and you can't move, you
just jerk back to where you spawned).
I have a new Linux version out that addresses this at:

ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake2/quake2-3.15a-i386-unknown-linux2.0.tar.gz


I'll be keeping a close eye on all the Quake2 servers over the next few days
to see what's up.  I'll also be working over the next day or two to get the 
other platforms done for servers:  Linux Alpha, Solaris Sparc and Solaris x86.

I'll have new the CTF with 3.15 changes (Vwep support, banning, etc) and
the CTF tournament mode done soon as well.  Also, I'll be posting the changes
to the game DLL later (including the banning, etc).  3.15 does run all
3.14 Game DLLs, but don't have the new features.

I'll look at adding the ability for clients to control whether or not they 
download all the skins, maps, etc.  Right now it always downloads (if 
possible).  If you set cl_noskins 1, it won't download it, but that's not
very useful in CTF or other team based mods.

I invite feedback on this version.  If you have a comment, drop me a line
at zoid@idsoftware.com.  I can't reply to all the mail I get, but I do
read it all.  :)

/// Zoid.


May 25th/1998

I'm not one to post opinion pieces in my plan, but I guess there is a first
time for everything.

Recently I released QuakeWorld 2.2 (and the subsequent 2.21 to address some
bugs) with several changes.  I'd like to clear up some of the decisions for
those changes and some common problems people are having.

First off, one of the central features of the new version was to stop
cheating.  Map hacks, models hacks, etc.  Now, I was a little overgressive
and included the vis data in the map check.  A lot of people had different
map versions (mostly from watervis patches) and it showed.  This was
addressed in 2.21 which had map checking off by default, and when enabled,
checks don't include the vis data.

Some users are complaining that waterhack no longer works, and this is true
and by design.  GLQWCL users can not enabled transparent water unless the
server enables 'watervis 1', which then permits them.  This levels the
playing field for everyone.  I actually got email from a person who
complained that he bought GL just so he could see into the water on dm3
and kill the poor guys using software.  He stated he should have an advantage
because he paid more money to buy hardware to improve his game.  I don't
agree with this (GL already has an advantage in frame rate and looking
damn pretty).  But, this is server controlled, so he can just play on servers
that enabled 'watervis 1'.

The whole issue stems from the fact that Quake was never designed with
transparent water in mind.  And in multiplayer play, it really shouldn't be
there since it wasn't intended.  Also, the software renderer doesn't do
transparency with water surfaces and these causes a huge advantage
difference.  Waterhack works, but it's damn ugly.  The solution was to
disable transparent water for everyone and level the playing field.

Another change in QuakeWorld 2.2 was with friction code.  Regular Quake
defaulted to a friction of 4.  QuakeWorld 1.5 through 2.1 defaulted to 6.
This does change the feel of the game, since you slide a bit more with a
friction of four.  I made this change so that QuakeWorld would feel more
like regular Quake.  QuakeWorld was intended as a net optimized version of
Quake and should play the same, but have the advantages of prediction as
well.  That was alwa