Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: dave.moore     Plan Last Modified: 03/03/1999 13:13:46 PST

Real Name: Dave Moore
Nickname:  SymLink
Job: Technology Programmer, Lord High Miscellany
Project: Starsiege Tribes

  I'd like to talk briefly about the virtues of a loud
and public statement of views.  The downside is if some of
what you say is demonstrably wrong, you'll get a lot of
flames, and you run the risk of looking like an idiot.  The
upside is, if you look like an idiot, more thoughful and
well-reasoned responses from someone who knows better ensure
you don't remain ignorant for long.  Something like this has
happened over the last few days.  I've received a tremendous
volume of helpful eMail in response to my 2/26 update. (Also
a tremendous volume of unhelpful eMail, but that's what the
bit bucket is for...)  Thanks to all who sent assistance
over the past few days.  I stand by a lot of what I said, we
need to keep watching out for overspecialization in OpenGL
drivers, but a lot of my data was incorrect.

  A thank you and a request to TRIBES fans who have been
(loudly!) lobbying their graphics card manufacturers to
better support TRIBES.  Thanks for the support, but please,
make your voices heard in feedback or support forums for
your card. Emailing people directly in the company only
takes up their time, and makes 'em grumpy when we call.

  I left a teaser in my .plan the other day, here's the
follow-up.  We've been working very closely with nVidia over
the past couple of days to correct the problems we've been
having on the TNT.  Both Sim Dietrich, and Nick Triantos
@nVidia has been immensely helpful in getting us the
internal performance numbers we needed to optimize TRIBES.
I don't want to give the impression that all our problems
are over, but playing TRIBES in OpenGL has gotten at least
300% better over the past 2 days.  It's looking more and
more like we won't have to switch to DirectX for TRIBES.

  Note that we are _not_ going to delay the 1.3 patch to
wait for this work to complete.  I'd suggest you view the
beta OpenGL support included in 1.3 as a way to make sure
you have the correct drivers for your video card, but then
wait for the short period of time that it's going to take
for us to incorporate this new codebase into the official
version, and make a few more optimizations.

  Tim and our web crew are working on a status page that
will show you what we're working on, and expected completion
dates, but until that's up and running, I'll try to keep my
.plan updated with what I'm working on re: OpenGL.  For now,
I'll be doing further optimizations for the TNT and similar
cards, and making sure that the Rage 128 works with TRIBES.
Once that's done, the next order of business is
re-optimizing the terrain and the interiors for single pass
cards like the G200 and the i740.  I'll keep you posted.