Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: dave.moore     Plan Last Modified: 03/22/1999 18:27:24 PST

Real Name: Dave Moore
Nickname:  SymLink
Job: Technology Programmer, Lord High Miscellany
Project: Starsiege Tribes

  Back from GDC!  What a week.  This was my first GDC, and
though I heard that it was smaller this year, it was still
pretty darn big.  The TRIBES team sat down with all the
major hardware vendors ('cept S3, who we missed.  We grabbed
some of their Snickers bars though, so it worked out OK),
and we got a good feel about where we are, and where we want
to be in the next year (on both sides of the table,
hopefully).  I wish we could plan farther ahead than that,
but, at least in the narrow world of 3D accelerators, we'd
be deluding ourselves.

  Since TRIBES didn't win the Best Multiplayer Game
Spotlight award (it went to StarCraft, though we picked up
the Voodoo equivalent), there's a yearning in me to have
award ceremonies that I have complete control over.   It
should be noted that this was definitely the year of Cendant
Soft...uh... Havas Interactive as a publisher, which
was involved in the lion's share of the Spotlight Awards
[Spotties?  Luxos?], most of which went to Valve's
Half-Life.  Still, without any further adieu, here are the
four completely frivolous awards for Dave's GDC Experience.


--------- Most Productive Single Conversation:

  nVidia: There's something about real-time, face-to-face
that eMail or phones can't seem to replicate.  They're still
really committed to helping us resolve any remaining issues
with TRIBES, and things are progressing nicely.


--------- Best Bread:

  Definitely Il Forniao, with 3dfx, and later, ATI.  If
you're ever in downtown San Jose, the bread alone is worth a
trip to the Hyatt.


--------- Coolest Business Cards:

  Turbine Entertainment Software, hands down.  I felt
embarassed handing them one of my Corporate Boring cards,
after which Andrew R. and Chris D. passed back this amazing,
multicolored piece of artwork, which, incidentally, is
strongly reminiscent of the covers of some Ayn Rand novels.


--------- Oddest Decision of Conference:

  Goes to Microsoft for hiring Soul Coughing for the DirectX
party.  Now, I have nothing against these guys in particular,
but "Circles" isn't exactly the sort of music that makes me
want to jump up and boogy.  Suggestion for next year: Cherry
Poppin' Daddies.  (Please, no hate mail from SC fans.)