Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: dave.meddish     Plan Last Modified: 03/03/1999 13:13:46 PST



dave.meddish.plan



3.2.99
Nothing worse than scoring a City League career-high sixteen points (4-6 from behind
the arc too--dBack was "en fuego"), but losing the game.  Drat.  I'm lucky if I 
score two points, it's too bad when Dave starts posting the big numbers and the
team can't capitalize...


Far too silent of late, ol' dBack has decided to liven up your days with a guest 
appearance in the .plan files.  I know, I know, you're lives have been soooo empty
with the wit and wisdom of David R. here, so I come to appease the masses.


As of now, the Tribes team is starting to ramp up for Tribes II (or 2--personally,
I prefer the Roman numerals), deciding what we can cram in for the sequel.  We'll
no doubt have some things that didn't make it in the first game, and some wondrous
new things as well.


At present, I'm finishing up documentation for the tools that we will be releasing
to the public sometime soon (and, no, I'm not getting more specific than that).  
This includes the Mission Editor and ZED, the in-house 3-D art tool that we used to
create static objects.  The docs are in spiffy .html format with lots of cool 
pictures and everything!  Very swank if I do say so myself (and I do)...we also
have tutelage for putting together your own "smack packs" using custom .wav files
and implementing custom-made skins.  


A big, big holler out to Dr. Jeep!!  You and Qui9 are truly *the men*!!  We'll have
to slip a little something into Tribes II just for you...we shall be quaffing a 
great quanity to a certain beverage in the near future thanks to your magnanimousness
(which may not be a word, but I said it, so it is now).

 
And Sifl & Olly is back on the airwaves with brand new episodes!  Huzzah!  Who needs
a life, I have Sifl & Olly.

1.27.99
Back to the grind...always good to hear and see the reviews rolling in.  Good Lord, it
looks like we might have a hit on our hands.  This is much better than my former place
of work, which shall go nameless, where I think our games sold a combined total of 32
copies...


So what is ol' dBack up to?  Making all you mod-makers happy soon.  Being writer-guy, 
I've been put in charge of making documentation for all of our tools that will be 
soon be released.  That includes the Mission Editor, 3D Art tools, the skin maker...all 
that jazz.  Not the most exciting stuff in the world, but hey, it pays the bills (and I
got plenty of those, believe you me).


1.4.99
Tanned, rested and ready (well, at least rested), ol' dBack is back on the case.  
Tried to keep track of things on the message boards, but this was with my parents on 
their *shudder* Macintosh.  I love Macs, but a Performa with a 28.8 just don't cut it.  
Maybe I'll get 'em an iMac for next Christmas.


Trust all had a safe and happy holidays.  Partied like it was 1999 on New Year's with 
friends at a certain establishment that shall go nameless but involved nubile young women 
in various states of undress.  Will not elaborate further (since I don't remember that 
much about it anyway).


First things first: As soon as SymLink gets his sorry butt back from Hawaii or wherever 
he is, we'll have an OpenGL patch out, as well as fixing our latest little problems.  As 
for me, I've got design issues to work on, new missions, new races, more writing, etc., 
etc...


Maybe a Diamond Sword piece.  That's the one tribe I haven't really touched on, so now 
that I've got a little free time, I'll try and get something out on the enigmatic ones 
for your reading enjoyment.


Oh, and by the way...WHERE'S THE BEER?  Nobody's mailed us any beer yet!  I am greatly 
disappointed.