Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: lincoln.hutton     Plan Last Modified: 03/30/1999 16:58:01 PST

Real Name: Lincoln Hutton
Nickname: Missing
Job: Tribes Programmer
Email: lincoln.hutton@dynamix.com


[3/30/99]

We're working on improvements to our drone "AI" (we being
Greg Lancaster and myself).  Our goal for mid-April is
to have drones that can navigate reliably around a world
that has a hand-built graph.  What we're working on is 
still more what should be termed "skills" rather 
than "AI" - once a fuller complement of basic skills 
is in place, then we can think about building some 
intelligent behavior out of them.  As mentioned before, 
our drone behavior in Tribes I is pretty limited.  

Should probably clarify - this is not for the Tribes I
patch (sorry!), rather we're looking down the road.  


[2/23/99]

We've been testing out the drone code implemented for the 
Tribes Training missions to make sure it works fine in a 
multi-player setting (something it _doesn't_ do in the 
original 1.0 release), and we have a simple example "bots 
mod" we're making available as an illustration of how they 
work.  Having drones in a multi-player game requires a 1.2 
(or greater) version of the SERVER, but any client version 
can join.  

Probably should start off with some expectation management 
here (bad news first).  The bot "AI" is pretty limited: 
they follow scripted paths and fire at the closest enemy 
that they have line-of-sight to.  They don't jet, make 
strategic decisions, or even automatically avoid obstacles, 
or obey commands (other than waypoint commands).  At this 
point the term "drone" is more accurate.  They can be used 
in missions as defensive patrols - running around the 
perimeter of a base for example (which is what the drones 
in the example do).  

A fair amount of control of the drones IS possible from 
script already and some clever scripting COULD probably 
effect better AI.  The example mod can be used as a 
starting point, plus a reference doc to the AI console 
functions is just about done and will be posted.