*** Monolith Production's IonFingerD Server 1.0 beta

User name: kevin
Plan modified: Tue Nov 03 21:00:00 1998

Name : Kevin Lambert
Alias : Hologram (or |GPFault| on IRC)
E-mail : kevin@lith.com
Position : Lead Game Designer / Lead Programmer
Project : Gruntz

10/19/98
Just finishing up the manual today and getting ready to watch our testing group of "all ages and sexes" come in and play the game.  It will be fun to see the impressions of people who don't really play games very often or at all.

I reserved my copy of Zelda 64 and got my free Zelda 64 T-shirt a few weeks ago and now I am counting down the days until my next project will suff...er... I mean until I can play it.  Some of the store employees at the large software stores managed to get a hold of a different Zelda 64 T-shirt with buttons at the top and the logo on the chest.  They're really nice looking and I'm still trying to get one myself.  Unfortunately for me however, the employees aren't willing to give theirs up, and it's kinda hard to rip the shirt off of an unwilling person's back without damaging it. :(

If you don't have a Nintendo 64 console, and you like action adventure games like Zelda, then I suggest you get the N64 if for no other reason than to play Zelda 64 when it comes out.  I would also suggest that if you have an extra one of those spiffy Zelda 64 T-shits with the logo on the chest, that you please send one to me!!! :)

GPF.

10/7/98
Gruntz is currently getting some playtesting from people of all ages to make sure that it's fun and appealing.  We should be getting some feedback relatively soon.  I'm starting on the Gruntz instruction manual now which should prove to be a well-needed change of pace.  My goal was to write the entire manual using nothing but the old DOS program "edlin" but unfortunately they never got around to adding the ability to embed pictures into your documents. :)

Only 5 more dayz till my b-day!  Like that actually means anything nowadays though... Last year was the last year where I actually received any sort of benefit for getting older until I become a senior citizen.  How lame.  I think there should be benefits at age 30, every 2 years before age 40, and then every year after that to counteract midlife crisis and depression.  They could be simple benefits like free pizza delivery, free admission into strip clubs, not having to obey the speed limit, legalized drugs, multiple wives, you know... just a few little things like that to remind you that life is worth living. (or the drugs to make you forget that it's actually not) :)

GPF.

------------------
Old plan filez can be found at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~kevin/plan/








*** This is a beta finger server.
*** Please report problems to natas@ionstorm.com