Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Steve Stringer
Email: sstringer@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Producer
Project: General
Last Updated: 01/25/1999 14:20:04 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monday, January 25th, 1999
H2 EP BETA
I'm looking for a few good people to help out on the Enhancement Pack.
We're adding quite a few enhancements to network play, and we cannot 
effectively test these features in the "real world" without your help.

If you're interested, please e-mail me at sstringer@activision.com.  Make
your subject line: "EP Beta"  You will receive an automated reply.  
Please send only one request. 

Once we're ready to test, I'll select 25 people from the e-mails who
have a decent variety of hardware configurations and meet our criteria.  

In order to participate, you must...

Own a full retail copy of Heretic IIBe willing to download appx. 18 megsHave the flexibility to play at 6:00pm PST each nightBe willing to provide thorough and useful bug reports

In your e-mail to me, please provide the following information:

Name (First, Middle Initial, Last)
Company (if applicable)
Street Address (no PO Boxes) 
City, State or Country, Zip
Phone
Fax
E-mail address

Also, please indicate what, if any, beta programs you have participated 
in beta programs for Activision in the past.

Finally, provide a brief description of your hardware configuration
including the following information:

Operating System: 
Processor Type:   
Physical Memory:  
Hard Drive:      
CD-ROM Drive:    
Monitor1:         
Monitor2:         
Display Info1:    
Display Info2:    
Pointing Device:  
Network:  
Modem:        
Sound Card:       
Video Card1:      
Video Card2:      
3D Video Card:
Connection Speed:  

This system information can be obtained easily by following these steps:

Insert your Heretic II CD in your CD ROM driveLaunch H2_Setup.exe (this will launch automatically with AutoPlay)In the first screen, type the letters, "cs" (no quotation marks)A system information screen will appear.Click the button "Sysinfo.txt" on the right.This places a file containing your system information on your desktop.*These sections are not included in Sysinfo.txt.  Please add them manually.Attach this file to your e-mail. 

Thanks, everyone.  I hope to hear from you soon.


Friday, January 22nd, 1999

Product News
The EP is getting very close to completion.  This is good news since
I'm about to lose one of my best programmers to disease.  

If you haven't checked out the Kiera screenshots yet, make a point to
do so.  The new model is awesome, and with all the new features, the
EP will be a must-have upgrade for everyone who loves the game.

Expect more news in the coming week or two.


Give Thy Day Thy Daily Rant
Let's talk about the most basic concepts in our capitalist society:  
supply and demand.  Specifically, let's talk about how record companies 
are responding to the threat of MP3s.  My response to them?  Welcome to 
my world.

I'm reading an article in the Marketplace section of today's Wall Street 
Journal entitled, "Companies Work to Battle Growth Music Pirates From the 
Internet."  This is hardly the first article I've read on the topic, too.  
There is no denying that it is a huge problem for the record companies, 
but as someone who has been dealing with piracy for years, my personal 
take is that they're trying to address the wrong problem.

The article discusses how execs from the record companies are working 
with companies like IBM and AT&T to come up with a "piracy proof" means 
of online music distribution.  Ha!  Piracy Proof.  Right. 

Supply and demand dictates that as long as people have motivation and 
access to enabling technology--CDRs, MP3 players, cheap, large format 
hard drives, and the Internet in this case--piracy will be a problem.  
As long as it is easy to create, distribute, and procure MP3s, the 
record companies are screwed.  

The MP3 format offers far too many advantages.  It's incredibly easy 
to create MP3s.  No joke, I have converted most of my music collection 
here at work that previously took up a whole drawer in my file cabinet 
and stored it on an old 2 gig drive.  At any time it's at my finger 
tips with almost instant access and infinite flexibility.  I want a 
couple hours of REM?  A few clicks loads every album I have and away 
it goes.  This is the perfect example of technology hitting a sweet 
spot of functionality and ease of use.

I can totally understand why record companies are running scared.  
With the exception of the advent of CDs, the industry has remained 
fairly static for its entire existence.  The fact that this has 
remained the case for so long is an aberration given advances in 
technology.  

So finally, tech caught up with them and in a matter of months, they're 
facing a complete paradigm shift in the way music is distributed and 
played.  No wonder they're scared shitless.  Artists for the first time 
have the ability to distribute on their own.  Fans have a low cost means 
of accessing their favorite artists.  This will inevitably result in an 
underground resurgence in more creative, cutting edge artists taking 
more and more risks.  And the record companies will no longer have total 
control over everything from A&R, recording, replicating, distributing, 
and cashing in.  

Then there's the media itself.  As long as the record companies had tight 
control over the media, they had control over everything upstream ending 
with the artist.  That's out the window now.  CDRs are dollars a piece, 
hard drive costs are down to pennies a meg, and storage space for CD 
quality audio is reduced by an order of magnitude. The most strongest, 
most valued link in their chain just broke, and there's nothing stopping 
the free fall.

Record companies have millions and millions at stake, and my take on it 
is that they should just write it off.  Give up now and embrace the 
technology and the medium.  Instead of fighting the inevitable, lead the 
way.  The winner of this race will be the company that provides the 
facilitating and enabling technologies.  As the record company is finding 
out, technology is the ultimate means of the redistribution of power in 
our society.  

So my message to the record companies:  find ways to be a part of the 
system.  Find an economic model that works in the new reality or make 
peace with death.  One or the other.  But don't try to impose a draconian 
means of "piracy proof" copy protection that will inevitably fail.


Tuesday, January 20, 1999

Welcome back Eric.  We missed you.  Are you regretting your return yet?  =)

There are days when my job is just so glamorous.  Getting into the guts of 
InstallShield to fix a new installer is a blast, and I highly recommend it
to anyone who loves hitting their head repeatedly with a blunt instrument.  

It was my wife's birthday last night, and we went to the Ivy here in LA.  Can anyone
say, "I'll have a steak sandwich...and a steak sandwich."  Mmmmmm.

Microsoft came by today to show us some of their new game controller devices.  Pretty
cool stuff for the most part.  My only request was to make the thumb pad on their 
SideWinder gamepad softer.  I suffer from an extreme, prolonged case of FIFA thumb 
induced by my annoying tendency to mash the shit out of the D-Pad whenever I'm about
to score a goal.  They laughed.  And then moved on.  Well, they asked!

Not that this is necessarily related, but their meeting got me thinking about input
devices for our games.  My suspicion is that no one has invented an input device yet 
that adequately replaces the speed and accuracy you get with the keyboard and mouse. 
I know that this is almost a religious matter for some people, but I have yet to find
an input device that let me play as well as the keyboard and mouse.  

So this begs the question:  looking long term, where do you see the input device market
heading in the coming years?  What is missing from current input devices?  What would
a first-person-shooter input device have to have that would make you run out and fork
out $50 of your own cash? 

Don't worry.  Activision isn't going into the hardware business.  However, hardware 
manufacturers do ask my opinion quite frequently.  I have my own theories, but it would
be interesting to hear what you guys think.  If you're interested and you really have
nothing better to do, e-mail me and let me know what you think.



Friday, January 15, 1999

Product News
There have been some questions about the Heretic/Hexen source code EULA (End User
License Agreement).  Basically, it breaks down like this:

* The intent of the EULA is that you can take the code, use and modify it as you wish
  just so long as you do not distribute it for commercial gain.  Meaning, if
  you make a port or a mod, you can distribute it for free, but you cannot sell it 
  without talking to us first.

* We simply goofed on the line that says you can install it only on one computer.
  These things happen.

* Our goal is to release the code for your enjoyment and education.  We treat the source
  code as we would any other tool distributed for free.  Use of the tool to support
  the Community is encouraged.  However, you cannot take our tools and copyrighted 
  material such as code or textures and turn that into a product that you then sell.
  We simply have to protect ourselves against some of the less scrupulous people out
  there.

Hope this clarifies things.  Enjoy!  

Thursday, January 14, 1999

Misc
This is an arcane bit of news for those of us who have been in the computer biz for a 
few years:  SyQuest is dead.  According to ZDTV, SyQuest filed for bankruptcy 
yesterday and sold their assets to Iomega today.  This is only of note because it 
raises a little bit of nostalgia in me.  My very first legit job in computers was as
a Mac computer consultant back in '92.  I remember with a bit of loathing those huge,
heavy, loud, delicate SyQuest carts that held a whopping 80 megs!  They were the crutch
of DTP and software development at the time and were as ubiquitous then as Jaz and Zip
carts are today.  A moment of silence, please, as we mourn the loss of a piece of 
computing history.     


Thursday, January 14, 1999

Product News
Some days, I just love my job.  There is a point in every project for me when I just 
fall in love with the concept and get whipped up into a frenzy about the potential for 
the game.  I'm fortunate enough to be in that euphoric state for both Soldier of Fortune
and our unannounced (doh!) title.  Ohhh, E3 is going to be fun...

I just got the feature list in the Enhancement Pack.  Man, the team has been working 
incredibly hard on this.  I'll release more details soon on confirmed features and even 
a screen shot or two, but suffice it to say, this thing is going to rock.  And it's our 
little gift to you for buying and loving our game.  

Misc
There is a fascinating article about ION Storm published online by the Dallas Observer.  
Wow...


Wednesday, January 13, 1999

PRODUCT NEWS
I obviously wasn't thinking when I made the Heretic/Hexen source archive a Windows exe.
Sorry about that, folks.  I just zipped up the archive and gave it to Kenn Hoekstra.
The zip version should be up on his website