Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 03/21/1998 16:48:34 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All gone!

Paul Magyar gets the last (slightly broken) one.

Bob Farmer gets the third.

Philip Kizer gets the second one.

Kyle Bousquet gets the first one.


3/21
----
I just shut down the last of the NEXTSTEP systems running at id.

We hadn't really used them for much of anything in the past year, so it was
just easier to turn them off than to continue to administer them.

Most of the intel systems had already been converted to NT or 95, and 
Onethumb gets all of our old black NeXT hardware, but we have four nice 
HP 712/80 workstations that can't be used for much of anything.

If someone can put these systems to good use (a dallas area unix hacker),
you can have them for free.  As soon as they are spoken for, I will update
my .plan, so check immediately before sending me email.

You have to come by our office (in Mesquite) and do a fresh OS install here
before you can take one.  There may still be junk on the HD, and I can't
spend the time to clean them myself.  You can run either NEXTSTEP 3.3 or
HP/UX.  These are NOT intel machines, so you can't run dos or windows.
I have NS CD's here, but I can't find the original HP/UX CDs.  Bring your
own if that's what you want.

I'm a bit nostalgic about the NeXT systems -- the story in the Id Anthology
is absolutely true:  I walked through a mile of snow to the bank to pay for
our first workstation.  For several years, I considered it the best
development environment around.  It still has advantages today, but you
can't do any accelerated 3D work on it.

I had high hopes for rhapsody, but even on a top of the line PPC, it felt
painfully sluggish compared to the NT workstations I use normally, and
apple doesn't have their 3D act together at all.

Its kind of funny, but even through all the D3D/OpenGL animosity, I think
Windows NT is the best place to do 3D graphics development.


3/20
----
Robert Duffy, the maintainer of Radiant QE4 is now "officially" in charge of
further development of the editor codebase.  He joins Zoid as a (part time)
contractor for us.

A modified version of Radiant will be the level editor for Quake 3.  The
primary changes will be support for curved surfaces and more general surface
shaders.  All changes will be publicly released, either after Q3 ships or
possibly at the release of Q3Test, depending on how things are going.

The other major effort is to get Radiant working properly on all of the 3D
cards that are fielding full OpenGL ICDs.  If you want to do level
development, you should probably get an 8mb video card.  Permedia II cards
have been the mainstay for developers that can't afford intergraph systems,
but 8mb rendition v2200 (thriller 3D) cards are probably a better bet as
soon as their ICD gets all the bugs worked out.


3/13
----

The Old Plan:

The rest of the team works on an aggressive Quake 2 expansion pack while
Brian and I develop tools and code for the entirely new Trinity generation
project to begin after the mission pack ships.

The New Plan:

Expand the mission pack into a complete game, and merge together a completely
new graphics engine with the quake 2 game / client / server framework, giving
us Quake 3.

"Trinity" is basically being broken up into two phases: graphics and
everything else.  Towards the end of Quake 1's development I was thinking
that we might have been better off splitting quake on those categories, but
in reverse order.  Doing client/server, the better modification framework,
and qc, coupled with a spiced up DOOM engine (Duke style) for one game, then 
doing the full 3D renderer for the following game.

We have no reason to believe that the next generation development would 
somehow go faster than the previous, so there is a real chance that doing all 
of the Trinity technology at once might push game development time to a full 
two years for us, which might be a bit more than the pressure-cooker work 
atmosphere here could handle.

So, we are going to try an experiment.

The non-graphics things that I was planning for Trinity will be held off 
until the following project -- much java integration with client downloadable 
code being one of the more significant aspects.  I hope to get to some next 
generation sound work, but the graphics engine is the only thing I am 
committing to.

The graphics engine is going to be hardware accelerated ONLY.  NO SOFTWARE 
RENDERER, and it won't work very well on a lot of current hardware.  We 
understand fully that this is going to significantly cut into our potential 
customer base, but everyone was tired of working under the constraints of the 
software renderer.  There are still going to be plenty of good quake derived 
games to play from other developers for people without appropriate hardware.


There are some specific things that the graphics technology is leveraging that
may influence your choice of a 3D accelerator.

All source artwork is being created and delivered in 24 bit color.  An 
accelerator that can perform all 3D work in 24 bit color will look 
substantially better than a 16 bit card.  You will pay a speed cost for it, 
though.

Most of the textures are going to be higher resolution.  Larger amounts of 
texture memory will make a bigger difference than it does on Quake 2.

Some key rendering effects require blending modes that some cards don't 
support.

The fill rate requirements will be about 50% more than Quake 2, on average.  
Cards that are fill rate limited will slow down unless you go to a lower 
resolution.

The triangle rate requirements will be at least double Quake 2, and scalable 
to much higher levels of detail on appropriate hardware.

Here are my current GUESSES about how existing cards will perform.

Voodoo 1
Performance will be a little slow, but it should look good and run acceptably.
You will have to use somewhat condensed textures to avoid texture thrashing.

Voodoo 2
Should run great.  Getting the 12 mb board is probably a good idea if you want
to use the high resolution textures.  The main rendering mode won't be able to
take advantage of the dual TMU the same way quake 2 does, so the extra TMU 
will be used for slightly higher quality rendering modes instead of greater 
speed: trilinear / detail texturing, or some full color effects where others 
get a mono channel.

Permedia 2
Will be completely fill rate bound, so it will basically run 2/3 the speed 
that quake 2 does.  Not very fast.  It also doesn't have one of the needed 
blending modes, so it won't look very good, either.  P2 does support 24 bit 
rendering, but it won't be fast enough to use it.

ATI Rage Pro
It looks like the rage pro has all the required blending modes, but the jury 
is still out on the performance.

Intel I740
Should run good with all features, and because all of the textures come out 
of AGP memory, there will be no texture thrashing at all, even with the full 
resolution textures.

Rendition 2100/2200
The 2100 should run about the speed of a voodoo 1, and the 2200 should be 
faster.  They support all the necessary features, and an 8 mb 2200 should be 
able to use the high res textures without a problem.  The renditions are the 
only current boards that can do 24 bit rendering with all the features.  It 
will be a bit slow in 24 bit mode, but it will look the best.

PVR PCX2
Probably won't run Quake 3.  They don't have ANY of the necessary blending 
modes, so it can't look correct.  Video Logic might decide to rev their 
minidriver to try to support it, but it is probably futile.

RIVA 128
Riva puts us in a bad position.  They are very fast, but they don't support 
an important feature.  We can crutch it up by performing some extra drawing 
passes, but there is a bit of a quality loss, and it will impact their speed.
They will probably be a bit faster than voodoo 1, but not to the degree that 
they are in Quake 2.


Naturally, the best cards are yet to come (I won't comment on unreleased 
cards).  The graphics engine is being designed to be scalable over the next 
few YEARS, so it might look like we are shooting a bit high for the first 
release, but by the time it actually ships, there will be a lot of people 
with brand new accelerators that won't be properly exploited by any other 
game.