Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 03/26/1998 12:29:07 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3/26
----
I haven't even seen the "BeOS port of Quake".  Stop emailing me about
aproving it.  I told one of the Lion developers he could port it to
BeOS in his spare time, but I haven't seen any results from it.

--

There is a public discussion / compilation going on at openquake for
suggestions to improve technical aspects of quake 3:

http://www.openquake.org/q3suggest/

This is sooo much better than just dropping me an email when a thought
hits you.  There are many, many thousands of you out there, and there
needs to be some filtering process so we can get the information
efficiently.

We will read and evaluate everything that makes it through the
discussion process.  There are two possible reasons why features
don't make it into our games -- either we decide that the effort is
better spent elsewhere, or we just don't think about it.  Sometimes the
great ideas are completely obvious when suggested, but were just missed.
That is what I most hope to see.

When the suggestions involve engineering tradeoffs and we have to
consider the implementation effort of a feature vs its benefits, the
best way to convince us to pursue it is to specify EXACTLY what benefits
would be gained by undertaking the work, and specifying a clean interface
to the feature from the file system data and the gamex86 code.

We hack where necessary, but I am much more willing to spend my time on
an elegant extension that has multiple uses, rather than adding api bulk
for specific features.  Point out things that are clunky and inelegant
in the current implementation.  Even if it doesn't make any user visible
difference, restructuring api for cleanliness is still a worthwhile goal.

We have our own ideas about game play features, so we may just disagree
with you.  Even if you-and-all-your-friends are SURE that your
suggestions will make the game a ton better, we may not think it
fits with our overall direction.  We aren't going to be all things to
all people, and we don't design by committee.



3/21 pt 2
---------
I haven't given up on rhapsody yet.  I will certainly be experimenting
with the release version when it ships, but I have had a number of
discouraging things happen.  Twice I was going to go do meetings at
apple with all relevent people, but the people setting it up would
get laid off before the meetings happened.  Several times I would hear
encouraging rumors about various things, but they never panned out.
We had some biz discussions with apple about rhapsody, but they were
so incredibly cautious about targeting rhapsody for consumer apps at
the expense of macos that I doubted their resolve.

I WANT to help.  Maybe post-E3 we can put something together.

The SGI/microsoft deal fucked up a lot of the 3D options.  The codebase
that everyone was using to develop OpenGL ICDs is now owned by
microsoft, so it is unlikely any of them will ever be allowed to port
to rhapsody (or linux, or BeOS).

That is one of the things I stress over -- The Right Thing is clear,
but its not going to happen because of biz moves.  It would be
great if ATI, which has video drivers for win, rhapsody, linux, and
BeOS, could run the same ICD on all those platforms.


--------------

All gone!

Paul Magyar gets the last (slightly broken) one.

Bob Farmer gets the third.

Philip Kizer gets the second one.

Kyle Bousquet gets the first one.


3/21
----
I just shut down the last of the NEXTSTEP systems running at id.

We hadn't really used them for much of anything in the past year, so it was
just easier to turn them off than to continue to administer them.

Most of the intel systems had already been converted to NT or 95, and 
Onethumb gets all of our old black NeXT hardware, but we have four nice 
HP 712/80 workstations that can't be used for much of anything.

If someone can put these systems to good use (a dallas area unix hacker),
you can have them for free.  As soon as they are spoken for, I will update
my .plan, so check immediately before sending me email.

You have to come by our office (in Mesquite) and do a fresh OS install here
before you can take one.  There may still be junk on the HD, and I can't
spend the time to clean them myself.  You can run either NEXTSTEP 3.3 or
HP/UX.  These are NOT intel machines, so you can't run dos or windows.
I have NS CD's here, but I can't find the original HP/UX CDs.  Bring your
own if that's what you want.

I'm a bit nostalgic about the NeXT systems -- the story in the Id Anthology
is absolutely true:  I walked through a mile of snow to the bank to pay for
our first workstation.  For several years, I considered it the best
development environment around.  It still has advantages today, but you
can't do any accelerated 3D work on it.

I had high hopes for rhapsody, but even on a top of the line PPC, it felt
painfully sluggish compared to the NT workstations I use normally, and
apple doesn't have their 3D act together at all.

Its kind of funny, but even through all the D3D/OpenGL animosity, I think
Windows NT is the best place to do 3D graphics development.


3/20
----
Robert Duffy, the maintainer of Radiant QE4 is now "officially" in charge of
further development of the editor codebase.  He joins Zoid as a (part time)
contractor for us.

A modified version of Radiant will be the level editor for Quake 3.  The
primary changes will be support for curved surfaces and more general surface
shaders.  All changes will be publicly released, either after Q3 ships or
possibly at the release of Q3Test, depending on how things are going.

The other major effort is to get Radiant working properly on all of the 3D
cards that are fielding full OpenGL ICDs.  If you want to do level
development, you should probably get an 8mb video card.  Permedia II cards
have been the mainstay for developers that can't afford intergraph systems,
but 8mb rendition v2200 (thriller 3D) cards are probably a better bet as
soon as their ICD gets all the bugs worked out.


3/13
----

The Old Plan:

The rest of the team works on an aggressive Quake 2 expansion pack while
Brian and I develop tools and code for the entirely new Trinity generation
project to begin after the mission pack ships.

The New Plan:

Expand the mission pack into a complete game, and merge together a completely
new graphics engine with the quake 2 game / client / server framework, giving
us Quake 3.

"Trinity" is basically being broken up into two phases: graphics and
everything else.  Towards the end of Quake 1's development I was thinking
that we might have been better off splitting quake on those categories, but
in reverse order.  Doing client/server, the better modification framework,
and qc, coupled with a spiced up DOOM engine (Duke style) for one game, then 
doing the full 3D renderer for the following game.

We have no reason to believe that the next generation development would 
somehow go faster than the previous, so there is a real chance that doing all 
of the Trinity technology at once might push game development time to a full 
two years for us, which might be a bit more than the pressure-cooker work 
atmosphere here could handle.

So, we are going to try an experiment.

The non-graphics things that I was planning for Trinity will be held off 
until the following project -- much java integration with client downloadable 
code being one of the more significant aspects.  I hope to get to some next 
generation sound work, but the graphics engine is the only thing I am 
committing to.

The graphics engine is going to be hardware accelerated ONLY.  NO SOFTWARE 
RENDERER, and it won't work very well on a lot of current hardware.  We 
understand fully that this is going to significantly cut into our potential 
customer base, but everyone was tired of working under the constraints of the 
software renderer.  There are still going to be plenty of good quake derived 
games to play from other developers for people without appropriate hardware.


There are some specific things that the graphics technology is leveraging that
may influence your choice of a 3D accelerator.

All source artwork is being created and delivered in 24 bit color.  An 
accelerator that can perform all 3D work in 24 bit color will look 
substantially better than a 16 bit card.  You will pay a speed cost for it, 
though.

Most of the textures are going to be higher resolution.  Larger amounts of 
texture memory will make a bigger difference than it does on Quake 2.

Some key rendering effects require blending modes that some cards don't 
support.

The fill rate requirements will be about 50% more than Quake 2, on average.  
Cards that are fill rate limited will slow down unless you go to a lower 
resolution.

The triangle rate requirements will be at least double Quake 2, and scalable 
to much higher levels of detail on appropriate hardware.

Here are my current GUESSES about how existing cards will perform.

Voodoo 1
Performance will be a little slow, but it should look good and run acceptably.
You will have to use somewhat condensed textures to avoid texture thrashing.

Voodoo 2
Should run great.  Getting the 12 mb board is probably a good idea if you want
to use the high resolution textures.  The main rendering mode won't be able to
take advantage of the dual TMU the same way quake 2 does, so the extra TMU 
will be used for slightly higher quality rendering modes instead of greater 
speed: trilinear / detail texturing, or some full color effects where others 
get a mono channel.

Permedia 2
Will be completely fill rate bound, so it will basically run 2/3 the speed 
that quake 2 does.  Not very fast.  It also doesn't have one of the needed 
blending modes, so it won't look very good, either.  P2 does support 24 bit 
rendering, but it won't be fast enough to use it.

ATI Rage Pro
It looks like the rage pro has all the required blending modes, but the jury 
is still out on the performance.

Intel I740
Should run good with all features, and because all of the textures come out 
of AGP memory, there will be no texture thrashing at all, even with the full 
resolution textures.

Rendition 2100/2200
The 2100 should run about the speed of a voodoo 1, and the 2200 should