Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake Arena
Last Updated: 09/08/1998 00:54:14 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9/7/98
------
I just got a production TNT board installed in my Dolch today.

The riva-128 was a troublesome part.  It scored well on benchmarks, but it had
some pretty broken aspects to it, and I never reccomended it (you are better
off with an intel I740).

There aren't any troublesome aspects to TNT.  Its just great.  Good work, Nvidia.

In terms of raw speed, a 16 bit color multitexture app (like quake / quake 2)
should still run a bit faster on a voodoo2, and an SLI voodoo2 should be faster
for all 16 bit color rendering, but TNT has a lot of other things going for it:

32 bit color and 24 bit z buffers.  They cost speed, but it is usually a better
quality tradeoff to go one resolution lower but with twice the color depth.

More flexible multitexture combine modes.  Voodoo can use its multitexture for
diffuse lightmaps, but not for the specular lightmaps we offer in QuakeArena.
If you want shiny surfaces, voodoo winds up leaving half of its texturing
power unused (you can still run with diffuse lightmaps for max speed).

Stencil buffers.  There aren't any apps that use it yet, but stencil allows
you to do a lot of neat tricks.

More texture memory.  Even more than it seems (16 vs 8 or 12), because all of the
TNT's memory can be used without restrictions.  Texture swapping is the voodoo's
biggest problem.

3D in desktop applications.  There is enough memory that you don't have to worry
about window and desktop size limits, even at 1280*1024 true color resolution.

Better OpenGL ICD.  3dfx will probably do something about that, though.

This is the shape of 3D boards to come.  Professional graphics level
rendering quality with great performance at a consumer price.

We will be releasing preliminary QuakeArena benchmarks on all the new boards
in a few weeks.  Quake 2 is still a very good benchmark for moderate polygon
counts, so our test scenes for QA involve very high polygon counts, which
stresses driver quality a lot more.  There are a few surprises in the current
timings...

---

A few of us took a couple days off in vegas this weekend.  After about
ten hours at the tables over friday and saturday, I got a tap on the shoulder...

Three men in dark suits introduced themselves and explained that I was welcome
to play any other game in the casino, but I am not allowed to play
blackjack anymore.

Ah well, I guess my blackjack days are over.  I was actually down a bit for
the day when they booted me, but I made +$32k over five trips to vegas in the
past two years or so.

I knew I would get kicked out sooner or later, because I don't play "safely".
I sit at the same table for several hours, and I range my bets around 10 to 1.



8/17/98
-------
I added support for HDTV style wide screen displays in QuakeArena, so
24" and 28" monitors can now cover the entire screen with game graphics.

On a normal 4:3 aspect ratio screen, a 90 degree horizontal field of view
gives a 75 degree vertical field of view.  If you keep the vertical fov
constant and run on a wide screen, you get a 106 degree horizontal fov.

Because we specify fov with the horizontal measurement, you need to change
fov when going into or out of a wide screen mode.  I am considering changing
fov to be the vertical measurement, but it would probably cause a lot of
confusion if "fov 90" becomes a big fisheye.

Many video card drivers are supporting the ultra high res settings
like 1920 * 1080, but hopefully they will also add support for lower
settings that can be good for games, like 856 * 480.

---

I spent a day out at apple last week going over technical issues.

I'm feeling a lot better about MacOS X.  Almost everything I like about
rhapsody will be there, plus some solid additions.

I presented the OpenGL case directly to Steve Jobs as strongly as possible.

If Apple embraces OpenGL, I will be strongly behind them.  I like OpenGL more
than I dislike MacOS. :)

---

Last friday I got a phone call: "want to make some exhibition runs at the
import / domestic drag wars this sunday?".  It wasn't particularly good
timing, because the TR had a slipping clutch and the F50 still hasn't gotten
its computer mapping sorted out, but we got everything functional in time.

The tech inspector said that my cars weren't allowed to run in the 11s
at the event because they didn't have roll cages, so I was supposed to go
easy.

The TR wasn't running its best, only doing low 130 mph runs.  The F50 was
making its first sorting out passes at the event, but it was doing ok.  My
last pass was an 11.8(oops) @ 128, but we still have a ways to go to get the
best times out of it.

I'm getting some racing tires on the F50 before I go back.  It sucked watching
a tiny honda race car jump ahead of me off the line. :)

I think ESPN took some footage at the event.