Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake Arena
Last Updated: 01/10/1999 15:48:12 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1/10/99
-------

Ok, many of you have probably heard that I spoke at the macworld
keynote on tuesday.  Some information is probably going to get
distorted in the spinning and retelling, so here is an info
dump straight from me:

Q3test, and later the full commercial Quake3: Arena,  will be simultaniously
released on windows, mac, and linux platforms.

I think Apple is doing a lot of things right.  A lot of what they are
doing now is catch-up to wintel, but if they can keep it up for the next
year, they may start making a really significant impact.

I still can't give the mac an enthusiastic reccomendation for sophisticated
users right now because of the operating system issues, but they are working
towards correcting that with MacOS X.


The scoop on the new G3 mac hardware:

Basically, its a great system, but Apple has oversold its
performance reletive to intel systems.  In terms of timedemo scores,
the new G3 systems should be near the head of the pack, but there
will be intel systems outperforming them to some degree.  The mac has
not instantly become a "better" platform for games than wintel, it
has just made a giant leap from the back of the pack to near the
front.

I wish Apple would stop quoting "Bytemarks".  I need to actually
look at the contents of that benchmark and see how it can be so
misleading.  It is pretty funny listening to mac evangelist types
try to say that an iMac is faster than a pentium II-400.  Nope.
Not even close.

From all of my tests and experiments, the new mac systems are
basically as fast as the latest pentium II systems for general
cpu and memory performance.  This is plenty good, but it doesn't
make the intel processors look like slugs.

Sure, an in-cache, single precision, multiply-accumulate loop could
run twice as fast as a pentium II of the same clock rate, but
conversly, a double precision add loop would run twice as fast
on the pentium II.

Spec95 is a set of valid benchmarks in my opinion, and I doubt the
PPC systems significantly (if at all) outperform the intel systems.


The IO system gets mixed marks.  The 66 mhz video slot is a good step
up from 33 mhz pci in previous products, but that's still half the
bandwidth of AGP 2X, and it can't texture from main memory.  This
will have a small effect on 3D gaming, but not enough to push it
out of its class.

The 64 bit pci slots are a good thing for network and storage cards,
but the memory controller doesn't come close to getting peak
utilization out of it.  