Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 3 Arena
Last Updated: 05/10/1999 23:55:53 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/11/99
-------
Everyone should realize that many popular net links are going to be clogged
up with q3test downloads for a while, so net play may be a bit patchy to
a lot of servers.

-------------

Now that the first win32 test is out, here is The Plan for going forward:

All future releases should be same-day for all architectures.

There may be an exe-only update to the current distributions if there are
significant problems, but it isn't scheduled.

The next major test release will include a new one on one map designed for
tournement play, and new executables with server and game modifications, but
will not require downloading a new pak0.pk3.

The release after that will introduce various teamplay rules on the original
two maps.  This version will likely be another full download, because I
know that I still have a couple things to change in the map format.  This
will probably be the first test running with the virtual machine.

The final major test release will introduce the single player game with
bots and ranks.

After any bugs are shaken out of that, it will be the "Q3 Demo" instead of
the "Q3 Test", and we should be ready to release the full game to stores.

In an ideal world, people that aren't prepared to deal with in-development
software would wait until then to form an opinion of the product.

---------------

I am offering a bounty for server crashing bugs.  Q2 had several releases
forced out because of malicious attacks on all the public servers, so I
want to try and flush out what I can during Q3's testing phase.

There is a server running in the debugger here at crashtest.idsoftware.com
(192.246.40.68).  Anyone that can repeatably hang or crash this system can
have a $100 prize and some misc bit of Q3A paraphenalia that I can dig up.

Operating system level attacks don't count -- only things that I can actually
fix or protect against in my code.

Denial of service attacks don't count if they require upkeep, but if there is
a fire-and-forget DOS attack, it will still count.

Any actions you can perform with the released client are fair game.  Crashing
the client isn't good for a bounty, but I would still like to know about it.

Custom attack programs are also fair game.  These are actually what I am most
concerned about -- malicious programs that goes through and crash all listed
servers.

Ideally, you would practice on a private server under your control and only
hit crashtest when you think you can repeat it.

If you find one, email me the instructions so I can reproduce it.  Include
"CRASHTEST" in the subject so I won't miss it.

First come, first served, one bounty per bug.  I will update crashtest with
our internal builds, so it will certainly be possible that an attack on the
released servers no longer functions on crashtest.