Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 3 Arena
Last Updated: 05/19/1999 04:13:34 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/19/99
-------
Now that all the E3 stuff is done with, I can get back to work...

I was stuck in a room the entire time doing press interviews, but it seemed
to have gone well.  It was mentioned to me that there were a few people on
the show floor with forged badges that read "John Carmack -- Id Software".
As if forged email / irc / icq isn't enough of a problem.  Sigh.

The "download" crashtest was first reported by Rick Hammerstone.  That was
a pure dumbass mistake on my part.

I should be sending the accumulated crashtest bounties off tomorrow.

The plan right now is to have an update release next week that will have
lots of bug fixes and cheat protections, but not too many new user visible
features.

I finally got around to implementing dual processor acceleration today.  I
still have a couple issues to resolve and some more rearranging to do, but
it is giving 20%+ speedup right now in a worst-case situation for it.

When completed, I expect the average speedup to be in the 40% to 80% range,
depending on what is going on and the video configuration.  Scenes with lots
of dynamic lighting and lots of sounds and other client processing going will
show the largest speedups.  It helps the slow scenes more than the fast
scenes, which is basically what you want.

I am going to shake this out with the Windows (NT) code first, but it should
definately make its way to the linux port eventually.

I know SMP is a que for all the BeOS folks to ask about ports, so I'm going
to head that off:  Be has all the code for Q3 (and Q2, for that matter), and
a version of Q3test should be available by the time they ship a release OS
with OpenGL hardware acceleration.

There will probably also be an SGI-irix port.

Regarding both of those ports: they are not supported ports, and will be
maintained by volenteers (like the current MacOS X port).  Update releases
will lag the official ones, and we won't committ to ANY dates.

I am doing all of my development on intergraph and sgi-NT hardware, but when
I have everything rock solid, I will give Nvidia and ATI's NT drivers a try.
I would be somewhat shocked if they didn't explode -- I doubt multiple
threads playing occasional tag team on a context has been well tested.

True, only a tiny fraction of our players (probably less than 1%) will be
able to take advantage of this, but I consider SMP usage to be an important
technology to nurture over the coming years.

The top of the benchmark chart should be an SMP system (assuming the NT
drivers have all the optimizations of the '98 drivers), and it will also
be possible to build a reletively cheap SMP system (say, dual 400's) that
outperforms the best single processor system.



5/12/99
-------
We had to upgrade the crashtest machine to NT sp 5, because
some people were attacking it with windows crashers.  Those
don't count.

Crashtest #3 from [iBO]QWhAX0R was a combination of two
problems:

The symptom was disconnecting all clients with an illegible
server message.  This turned out to be caused by the fact
that I was parsing strings out of my net buffers with a
MSG_ReadChar() function, and I was checking for EOF as a
negative one return value.  I had to change this to a
MSG_ReadByte() call, because -1 was showing up in the
messages, which then caused a parse error because it wasn't
really the end of the message.

The actual root of that issue was code like this:
{
	char	buffer[MAX_STRING_CHARS];

	...
	strncpy( buffer, input, sizeof(buffer) - 1 );
	...
}

No buffer overruns are possible, but buffer is not forced
to be zero terminated if on the stack.  I'm pretty sure this
was a result of copy-and-paste code where buffer used to be
a static with a guaranteed zero, but it made me find several
other places where similar things were happening.

I had started using a Q_strncpyz() function a while ago that
guarantees a trailing zero and doesn't require the -1, but it
turned out that between code I had written a long time ago,
and code that either Cash or Brian had added, there were still
a lot of normal strncpy calls around.  A lot of them were wrong,
too.  Either missing the -1, or missing the dedicated 0 fill in.

Crashtest #4 from Jim Paris was a variation on the first part
of #3.

Only one of these attacks so far has been a server crasher, but
I have been giving the bounty for anything that immediately kicks
all the players.  I probably won't give it for attacks that only
overflow some lagged clients, but I'll evaluate as they happen.

I am off to E3 now for a bunch of PR silliness, so if
crashtest goes down, it won't be back up for a while...


* fixed crashtest 4
* fixed crashtest 3
* fixed jumping-over-item pickup prediction error
* made "Couldn't load sound" a developer only warning
* fixed demo recording not including portal surface entities
* precache grenade bounce sounds


5/11/99
-------
You can bias the level of detail lower than allowed in the
menu with "r_lodbias 2", which will force all models to the lowest
lod.  The view weapon will look very ugly.

Another little speedup option that isn't offered in the menus is:
"cg_simpleitems 1" this removes the extra rings and spheres around
some items.

You can also turn off all the gibs with "cg_gibs 0".


* clear game memory at init, which fixes the stuck-at-intermission
	problem on mac servers
* fixed mismatched free / Z_Free in demo menu
* removed unused reference to sprites/plama.md3
* automatically get sounds from model name
* scale sensitivity by zoom
* immediately archive changes to latched cvars
* cheat protect r_portalonly
* don't print "XXX connected" on level restarts
* fixed "give item" on levels where 0,0,0 is in solid
* fixed timedemo
* don't play pain falling sound if dead
* fixed falling damage sound not snd specific
* fixed crashtest 2
* fixed crashtest 1
* q3map_backshader
* q3map_globaltexture


5/11/99
-------
Do NOT send bug reports and game comments directly to me!
If I have to filter through hundreds of emails a day, I won't get any
more work done...  Only crashtest related problems should come to me,
everything else should go to q3feedback@idsoftware.com.


5/11/99
-------
Sami Tammilehto wins the second prize.  Some large connectionless packets
can cause crashes.

This one was a result of me having the maximum token size defined lower
than the maximum string size.


5/11/99
-------
BigImp wins the first prize.  It doesn't crash the server, but fmtspec
names will crash all clients that try to log on.  Technically that would
be an upkeep required DOS attack, but I'll let this one go.

I even had a "FIXME: make vsprintf safe" comment by the offending line...

I am going to update the server to filter out all % chars that come in
over the net to prevent any other similar things.



5/11/99
-------
Everyone should realize that many popular net links are going to be clogged
up with q3test downloads for a while, so net play may be a bit patchy to
a lot of servers.

-------------

Now that the first win32 test is out, here is The Plan for going forward:

All future releases should be same-day for all architectures.

There may be an exe-only update to the current distributions if there are
significant problems, but it isn't scheduled.

The next major test release will include a new one on one map designed for
tournement play, and new executables with server and game modifications, but
will not require downloading a new pak0.pk3.

The release after that will introduce various teamplay rules on the original
two maps.  This version will likely be another full download, because I
know that I still have a couple things to change in the map format.  This
will probably be the first test running with the virtual machine.

The final major test release will introduce the single player game with
bots and ranks.

After any bugs are shaken out of that, it will be the "Q3 Demo" instead of
the "Q3 Test", and we should be ready to release the full game to stores.

In an ideal world, people that aren't prepared to deal with in-development
software would wait until then to form an opinion of the product.

---------------

I am offering a bounty for server crashing bugs.  Q2 had several releases
forced out because of malicious attacks on all the public servers, so I
want to try and flush out what I can during Q3's testing phase.

There is a server running in the debugger here at crashtest.idsoftware.com
(192.246.40.68).  Anyone that can repeatably hang or crash this system can
have a $100 prize and some misc bit of Q3A paraphenalia that I can dig up.

Operating system level attacks don't count -- only things that I can actually
fix or protect against in my code.

Denial of service attacks don't count if they require upkeep, but if there is
a fire-and-forget DOS attack, it will still count.

Any actions you can perform with the released client are fair game.  Crashing
the client isn't good for a bounty, but I would still like to know about it.

Custom attack programs are also fair game.  These are actually what I am most
concerned about -- malicious programs that goes through and crash all listed
servers.

Ideally, you would practice on a private server under your control and only
hit crashtest when you think you can repeat it.

If you find one, email me the instructions so I can reproduce it.  Include
"CRASHTEST" in the subject so I won't miss it.

First come, first served, one bounty per bug.  I will update crashtest with
our internal builds, so it will certainly be possible that an attack on the
released servers no longer functions on crashtest.