Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 3 Arena
Last Updated: 12/21/1999 20:24:07 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12/21/99
--------

The Q3 game source code is getting pushed back a bit because we had to do
some rearranging in the current codebase to facilitate the release, and
we don't want to release in-progress code before the official binary point
release.

We still have a Christmas present for the coders, though:

http://www.idsoftware.com/q1source/

Happy holidays!



12/15/99
--------

Anna Kang left Id a couple weeks ago to found her own company - 
Fountainhead Entertainment.

It wasn't generally discussed during her time at Id, but we had been going
out when she joined the company, and we were engaged earlier this year.
We are getting married next month, and honeymooning in Hawaii.  At her
thoughtful suggestion, we are shipping a workstation out with us, so I don't
fall into some programming-deprivation state.  How great is that? :-)

Now that Q3A has shipped, the official winner of her Id Software figurine
chess set contest is Rowan Crawford for his prose and art.

An honorable mention goes to Reine Hogberg and Peder Hardings for their Q3A
Blair Witch Project.  They will receive silver Q3A medallions.


12/12/99
--------

WANTED: Independant OpenGL conformance nazi

I think there is a strong need for a proactive, vendor-neutral
OpenGL watchdog, or even a small group, especially in the linux space.

I have been working on the utah-GLX team for quite a while now, and while
I have been very pleased with the results, I would like to see more effort
spent on doing things as right as possible.  Because the developers (me
included) are basically just doing the work in their spare time, testing
usually only consists of running their favorite OpenGL application, and a
few of the mesa demos, or some of the xscreensaver hacks.

Recently I did the initial bringup of a RagePro driver on linux, and I was
much more conscious of the large untested feature space, and the tunnel
vision I was using to get it to the point of running Q3.

What we need is someone, or a group of someones, who can really exercise
different implementations through all corners of the OpenGL specification
and provide detailed lists of faults with minimal test cases to reproduce
the behavior.

In most cases, the bugs could then be fixed, but even if it is decided that
the incorrect behavior is going to stay (to avoid a software fallback in a
common accelerated case), there would be clear documentation of it.

I consider performance on the matrox driver right now to be "good enough".
There is definately more performance oriented work going on, but given a
choice of tasks to work on, I would rather improve quality and coverage
instead of kicking a few more fps out of Q3.

One of Alex St. John's valid points was that "The drivers are always broken".
There are a lot of factors that contribute to it, including fierce
benchmarking competition causing driver writers to do some debatable things
and diminish focus on quality.  With open source drivers, some of those
factors go away.  Sure, it is nice to beat windows drivers on some benchmarks,
but I wouldn't let pursuit of that goal introduce dumb things into the code.

Some of the windows IHVs have good testing proceedures and high quality
drivers, but even there, it would be nice to have someone hounding them about
things beyond how well quake releated games run.

The same goes for Apple, especially now that there is both ATI and 3dfx
support.

Conformance would be my primary interest, but characterizing the performance
of different drivers would also be usefull, especially for edge cases that may
or may not be accelerated, like glDrawPixels.

On linux right now, we have:

The traditional fullscreen 3dfx mesa driver
The DRI-GLX based banshee/voodoo3 driver
The utah-GLX matrox G200/G400 driver
The temporary utah-GLX nvidia driver
The newly born utah-GLX ATI Rage Pro driver

If anyone is interested, join the developer list off of:
http://glx.on.openprojects.net/

Doing a proper job would require a really good knowledge of the OpenGL
specification, and a meticulous style, but it wouldn't require hardcore
registers-and-dma driver writing skills, only basic glut programming.

If someone does wind up developing a good suite of tools and procedures and
gives one of the drivers a really good set of feedback, I would be happy to
provide extra video cards so they could beat up all the implementations.




11/22/99
--------
d:\>mkdir research

Ahhhh....

I am very happy with how Q3 turned out.  Probably more than any
game we have done before, it's final form was very close to its
initial envisioning.

I will be getting all the Q3 code we are going to release together
over the next week or so.  I will write some overview documentation
to give a little context, and since you can do game mods without
needing a commercial compiler now, I will write a brief step-by-step
to modifying the game code.

I'm looking forward to what comes out of the community with Q3.

The rough outline of what I am going to be working on now:

We will be supporting Q3 for quite some time.  Any problems
we have will get fixed, and some new features my sneak in.

I have two rendering technologies that I intend to write research
engines for.

I am going to spend some time on computer vision problems.  I think
the cheap little web cams have some interesting possibilities.

I am going to explore some possibilities with generalizing 3D game
engines into more powerful environments with broader uses.  I think
that a lot of trends are coming to the point where a "cyberspace" as
it is often imagined is begining to be feasible.

I am going to spend more time on some Free Software projects.  I have
been stealing a few hours here and there to work on the matrox glx
project for a while now, and it has been pretty rewarding.
People with an interest in the guts of a 3D driver might want to look
at the project archives at http://glx.on.openprojects.net/.
The web pages aren't very up to date, but the mailing list covers some
good techie information.



11/21/99
--------
* fixed not-telefragging bug
* disabled flood protection with local clients
* fixed headoffset and gender on some model changes
* init cg_autoswitch cvars in cl
* fixed clearing of vm bss on restart
* fixed hang when looped part of song isn't found
* fixed two NAT clients connecting to same server
* fixed warning on random once only triggers
* added "g_allowVote 0"
* added developer background sound underrun warning
* move sound loading before clients so low memory
	defer works across maps
* changed cgame load failure to a drop


11/18/99
--------
Linux version isn't going to make it tonight.  We got
too busy with other things.  Sorry.  Tomorrow.

* shrink zone, grow hunk
* flush memory on an error
* fixed crash pasting from clipboard
* test all compiler optimizations -- 5% speedup
* fixed major slowdown in team games with large
	numbers of players and location markers



11/17/99
--------
The mac version is out.  Go to www.quake3arena.com for links.

The mac version going out has the executable fixes that we
have made in the last couple days, but most of the fixes
have been in code that runs in the virtual machine, and we
can't update that without making it incomptable with the
pc version.

The game remains very marginal in playability on 266mhz imacs
and iBooks.

A 333mhz imac should be playable for a casual gamer if the
graphics options are turned down to the "fastest" setting.

There is still a lot of room for improvement on ATI's side
with the RagePro drivers.  Almost all the effort so far
has been on the Rage128 drivers.

The G3 systems run fine, but a little slower than a pc of
equal mhz

The rage128 cards in the G3s are only clocked at 75mhz, so
you can't run too high of a resolution, but you can get
very nice image quality.  I usually play with these settings:
r_mode 2	// 512*284 res
r_colorbits 32	// 32 bit color
r_texturemode gl_linear_mipmap_linear	// trilinear filtering

I haven't played on one of the new iMacs or G4's but they
both use the rage128 driver, which is fairly high quality
now, so they should perform well.

We found a fairly significant problem with inputSprockets and
mouse control (motion is dropped after 40msec).  I have done a
little working around it, so mouse control should be somewhat
better in this version, but it will hopefully be fixed
properly by Apple in the next IS rev.  It isn't an issue if
your framerate is high enough, but iMacs never see that
framerate on their very best days...

Linux version tomorrow night, if nothing horrible happens.

Some advance warning about something that is sure to stir
up some argument:

We should be handing off the masters for all three platforms
within a day or two of each other, but they aren't going to
show up in stores at the same time.  Publishers, distributers,
and stores are willing to go out of their way to expedite the
arrival of the pc version, but they just won't go to the
same amount of trouble for mac and linux boxes.

THE EXECUTABLES FOR ALL PLATFORMS WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE FOR
DOWNLOAD UNTIL AFTER CHRISTMAS.  This means that if you want
to play on the mac or linux, don't pick up a copy of the pc
version and expect to download the other executables.

Our first update to the game will be for all platforms, and
will allow any version to be converted into any other, but
we intend to hold that off for a little while.

We are doing this at the request of the distributors.  The
fear is that everyone will just grab a windows version,
and the separate boxes will be ignored.

A lot of companies are going to be watching the sales
figures for the mac and linux versions of Q3 to see if
the platforms are actually worth supporting.  If everyone
bought a windows version and the other boxes sold like crap
in comparison, that would be plenty of evidence for most
executives to can any cross platform development.

I know there are a lot of people that play in both windows
and linux, and this may be a bit of an inconvenience in
the short term, but this is an ideal time to cast a vote
as a consumer.

Its all the same to Id (I like hybrid CD's), and our continued
support of linux and mac (OS X for the next title) is basically
a foregone conclusion, but the results will probably influence
other companies. 

* fixed getting your own dropped / kicked message
* added developer print for all file open write's
* fixed occasional bad color on connecting background
* fixed occasional telefrag at start of skirmish game
* fix not being able to ready at intermission if
	you were following a bot
* never timelimit during tourney warmup
* fixed local timer on map_restart
* offset sorlag's head model for status bar
* added g_gametype to the votable commands:
	map, map_restart, kick, g_gametype
* changed sound registration sequence to fix losing
	default sound
* "sv_floodProtect 0" to turn off flood protection
* converted sequenced messages to static arrays
* fixed custom skin reassignment on all LOD


11/16/99
--------
The demo servers have general purpose flood-protection that has
caused some confusion.

Clients are only allowed to make one command a second of any kind.
This prevents excessive flooding by chats, model / name changes,
and any other command that could possibly be exploited.  The
command streams are stalled, so it doesn't have any effect on
processing order or reliability.

This means that if you issue two commands immediately after one
another, there will be a one second stall before the second
command and all movement clears.  You see this on the lagometer
as yellow spiking up for a second, then dropping away.

Hitting tab for the scoreboard sends a command, so you trigger
the flood protection if you bang tab a couple times.  This has
been fixe