Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: John Carmack
Email: johnc@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 3 Arena
Last Updated: 05/08/2000 19:41:25 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/8/00
------
The .qc files for quake1/quakeworld are now available under the GPL
in source/qw-qc.tar.gx on out ftp site.  This was an oversight on my
part in the original release.

Thanks to the QuakeForge team for doing the grunt work of the preparation.


4/29/00
-------
We need more bits per color component in our 3D accelerators.

I have been pushing for a couple more bits of range for several years now,
but I now extend that to wanting full 16 bit floating point colors throughout
the graphics pipeline.  A sign bit, ten bits of mantissa, and five bits of
exponent (possibly trading a bit or two between the mantissa and exponent).
Even that isn't all you could want, but it is the rational step.

It is turning out that I need a destination alpha channel for a lot of the
new rendering algorithms, so intermediate solutions like 10/12/10 RGB
formats aren't a good idea.  Higher internal precision with dithering to 32
bit pixels would have some benefit, but dithered intermediate results can
easily start piling up the errors when passed over many times, as we have
seen with 5/6/5 rendering.

Eight bits of precision isn't enough even for full range static image
display.  Images with a wide range usually come out fine, but restricted
range images can easily show banding on a 24-bit display.  Digital television
specifies 10 bits of precision, and many printing operations are performed
with 12 bits of precision.

The situation becomes much worse when you consider the losses after multiple
operations.  As a trivial case, consider having multiple lights on a wall,
with their contribution to a pixel determined by a texture lookup.  A single
light will fall off towards 0 some distance away, and if it covers a large
area, it will have visible bands as the light adds one unit, two units, etc.
Each additional light from the same relative distance stacks its contribution
on top of the earlier ones, which magnifies the amount of the step between
bands: instead of going 0,1,2, it goes 0,2,4, etc.  Pile a few lights up like
this and look towards the dimmer area of the falloff, and you can believe you
are back in 256-color land.

There are other more subtle issues, like the loss of potential result values
from repeated squarings of input values, and clamping issues when you sum up
multiple incident lights before modulating down by a material.

Range is even more clear cut.  There are some values that have intrinsic
ranges of 0.0 to 1.0, like factors of reflection and filtering.  Normalized
vectors have a range of -1.0 to 1.0.  However, the most central quantity in
rendering, light, is completely unbounded.  We want a LOT more than a 0.0 to
1.0 range.  Q3 hacks the gamma tables to sacrifice a bit of precision to get
a 0.0 to 2.0 range, but I wanted more than that for even primitive rendering
techniques.  To accurately model the full human sensable range of light
values, you would need more than even a five bit exponent.

This wasn't much of an issue even a year ago, when we were happy to just
cover the screen a couple times at a high framerate, but realtime graphics
is moving away from just "putting up wallpaper" to calculating complex
illumination equations at each pixel.  It is not at all unreasonable to
consider having twenty textures contribute to the final value of a pixel.
Range and precision matter.

A few common responses to this pitch:

"64 bits per pixel??? Are you crazy???"  Remember, it is exactly the same
relative step as we made from 16 bit to 32 bit, which didn't take all
that long.  

Yes, it will be slower.  That's ok.  This is an important point:  we can't
continue to usefully use vastly greater fill rate without an increase in
precision.  You can always crank the resolution and multisample anti-alaising
up higher, but that starts to have diminishing returns well before you use of
the couple gigatexels of fill rate we are expected to have next year.  The
cool and interesting things to do with all that fill rate involves many
passes composited into less pixels, making precision important.

"Can we just put it in the texture combiners and leave the framebuffer at 32
bits?"  No.  There are always going to be shade trees that overflow a given
number of texture units, and they are going to be the ones that need the
extra precision.  Scales and biases between the framebuffer and the higher
precision internal calculations can get you some mileage (assuming you can
bring the blend color into your combiners, which current cards can't), but
its still not what you want.  There are also passes which fundamentally
aren't part of a single surface, but still combine to the same pixels, as
with all forms of translucency, and many atmospheric effects.
 
"Do we need it in textures as well?"  Not for most image textures, but it
still needs to be supported for textures that are used as function look
up tables.

"Do we need it in the front buffer?"  Probably not.  Going to a 64 bit front
buffer would probably play hell with all sorts of other parts of the system.
It is probably reasonable to stay with 32 bit front buffers with a blit from
the 64 bit back buffer performing a lookup or scale and bias operation before
dithering down to 32 bit.  Dynamic light adaptation can also be done during
this copy.  Dithering can work quite well as long as you are only performing
a single pass.


I used to be pitching this in an abstract "you probably should be doing this"
form, but two significant things have happened that have moved this up my hit
list to something that I am fairly positive about.

Mark Peercy of SGI has shown, quite surprisingly, that all Renderman surface
shaders can be decomposed into multi-pass graphics operations if two
extensions are provided over basic OpenGL:  the existing pixel texture
extension, which allows dependent texture lookups (matrox already supports a
form of this, and most vendors will over the next year), and signed, floating
point colors through the graphics pipeline.  It also makes heavy use of the
existing, but rarely optimized, copyTexSubImage2D functionality for
temporaries.

This is a truly striking result.  In retrospect, it seems obvious that with
adds, multiplies, table lookups, and stencil tests that you can perform any
computation, but most people were working under the assumption that there
were fundamentally different limitations for "realtime" renderers vs offline
renderers.  It may take hundreds or thousands of passes, but it clearly
defines an approach with no fundamental limits.  This is very important.
I am looking forward to his Siggraph paper this year.

Once I set down and started writing new renderers targeted at GeForce level
performance, the precision issue has started to bite me personally.  There
are quite a few times where I have gotten visible banding after a set of
passes, or have had to worry about ordering operations to avoid clamping.
There is nothing like actually dealing with problems that were mostly
theoretical before...

64 bit pixels.  It is The Right Thing to do.  Hardware vendors: don't you be
the company that is the last to make the transition.



4/6/00
------
Whenever I start a new graphics engine, I always spend a fair amount of time
flipping back through older graphics books.  It is always interesting to see
how your changed perspective with new experience impacts your appreciation of
a given article.

I was skimming through Jim Blinn's "A Trip Down The Graphics Pipeline"
tonight, and I wound up laughing out loud twice.

From the book:

P73:  I then empirically found that I had to scale by -1 in x instead of in z,
and also to scale the xa and xf values by -1.  (Basically I just put in enough
minus signs after the fact to make it work.)  Al Barr refers to this technique
as "making sure you have made an even number of sign errors."

P131: The only lines that generate w=0 after clipping are those that pass
through the z axis, the valley of the trough.  These lines are lines that
pass exactly through the eyepoint.  After which you are dead and don't care
about divide-by-zero errors.

If you laughed, you are a graphics geek.

My first recollection of a Jim Blinn article many years ago was my skimming
over it and thinking "My god, what ridiculously picky minutia."  Over the last
couple years, I found myself haranguing people over some fairly picky issues,
like the LSB errors with cpu vs rasterizer face culling and screen edge
clipping with guard band bit tests.  After one of those pitches, I quite
distinctly thought to myself "My god, I'm turning into Jim Blinn!" :-)




3/27/00
-------
Two years ago, Id was contacted by the Startlight Foundation, an organization
that tries to grant wishes to seriously ill kids. (www.starlight.org)

There was a young man with Hodgkin's Lymphoma that, instead of wanting to go
to Disneyland or other traditional wishes, wanted to visit Id and talk with
me about programming.

It turned out that Seumas McNally was already an accomplished developer.
His family company, Longbow Digital Arts (www.longbowdigitalarts.com), had
been doing quite respectably selling small games directly over the internet.
It bore a strong resemblance to the early shareware days of Apogee and Id.

We spent the evening talking about graphics programmer things -- the relative
merits of voxels and triangles, procedurally generated media, level of detail
management, API and platforms.

We talked at length about the balance between technology and design, and all
the pitfalls that lie in the way of shipping a modern product.

We also took a dash out in my ferrari, thinking "this is going to be the best
excuse a cop will ever hear if we get pulled over".

Longbow continued to be successful, and eventually the entire family was
working full time on "Treadmarks", their new 3D tank game.

Over email about finishing the technology in Treadmarks, Seumas once said
"I hope I can make it".  Not "be a huge success" or "beat the competition".
Just "make it".

That is a yardstick to measure oneself by.  

It is all too easy to lose your focus or give up with just the ordinary
distractions and disappointments that life brings.  This wasn't ordinary.
Seumas had cancer.  Whatever problems you may be dealing with in your life,
they pale before having problems drawing your next breath.

He made it.

Treadmarks started shipping a couple months ago, and was entered in the
Independent Games Festival at the Game Developer's Conference this last month.
It came away with the awards for technical excellence, game design, and the
grand prize.

I went out to dinner with the McNally family the next day, and had the
opportunity to introduce Anna to them.  One of the projects at Anna's new
company, Fountainhead Entertainment (www.fountainheadent.com), is a
documentary covering gaming, and she had been looking forward to meeting
Seumas after hearing me tell his story a few times.  The McNallys invited
her to bring a film crew up to Canada and talk with everyone whenever she
could.

Seumas died the next week.

I am proud to have been considered an influence in Seumas' work, and I think
his story should be a good example for others.  Through talent and
determination, he took something he loved and made a success out of it in
many dimensions.

http://www.gamedev.net/community/memorial/seumas/ for more information.


3/7/00
------
This is something I have been preaching for a couple years, but I 
finally got around to setting all the issues down in writing.

First, the statement:

Virtualized video card local memory is The Right Thing.

Now, the argument (and a whole bunch of tertiary information):

If you had all the texture density in the world, how much texture 
memory would be needed on each frame?

For directly viewed textures, mip mapping keeps the amount of 
referenced texels between one and one quarter of the drawn pixels.  
When anisotropic viewing angles and upper level clamping are taken into 
account, the number gets smaller.  Take 1/3 as a conservative estimate.

Given a fairly aggressive six texture passes over the entire screen, 
that equates to needing twice as many texels as pixels.  At 1024x768 
resolution, well under two million texels will be referenced, no matter 
what the finest level of detail is.  This is the worst case, assuming 
completely unique texturing with no repeating.  More commonly, less 
than one million texels are actually needed.

As anyone who has tried to run certain Quake 3 levels in high quality 
texture mode on an eight or sixteen meg card knows, it doesn’t work out 
that way in practice.  There is a fixable part and some more 
fundamental parts to the fall-over-dead-with-too-many-textures problem.

The fixable part is that almost all drivers perform pure LRU (least 
recently used) memory management.  This works correctly as long as the 
total amount of textures needed for a given frame fits in the card’s 
memory after they have been loaded.  As soon as you need a tiny bit 
more memory than fits on the card, you fall off of a performance cliff.  
If you need 14 megs of textures to render a frame, and your graphics 
card has 12 megs available after its frame buffers, you wind up loading 
14 megs of texture data over the bus every frame, instead of just the 2 
megs that don’t fit.  Having the cpu generate 14 megs of command 
traffic can drop you way into the single digit frame rates on most 
drivers.

If an application makes reasonable effort to group rendering by 
texture, and there is some degree of coherence in the order of texture 
references between frames, much better performance can be gotten with a 
swapping algorithm that changes its behavior instead of going into a 
full thrash:

While ( memory allocation for new texture fails ) 
Find the least recently used texture.
If the LRU texture was not needed in the previous frame,
	Free it
Else
	Free the most recently used texture that isn’t bound to an 
active texture unit

Freeing the MRU texture seems counterintuitive, but what it does is 
cause the driver to use the last bit of memory as a sort of scratchpad 
that gets constantly overwritten when there isn’t enough space.  Pure 
LRU plows over all the other textures that are very likely going to be 
needed at the beginning of the next frame, which will then plow over 
all the textures that were loaded on top of them.

If an application uses textures in a completely random order, any given 
replacement policy has the some effect…

Texture priority for swapping is a non-feature.  There is NO benefit to 
attempting to statically prioritize textures for swapping.  Either a 
texture is going to be referenced in the next frame, or it isn’t.  
There aren’t any useful gradations in between.  The only hint that 
would be useful would be a notice that a given texture is not going to 
be in the next frame, and that just doesn’t come up very often or cover 
very many texels.

With the MRU-on-thrash texture swapping policy, things degrade 
gracefully as the total amount of textures increase but due to several 
issues, the total amount of textures calculated and swapped is far 
larger than the actual amount of texels referenced to draw pixels.

The primary problem is that textures are loaded as a complete unit, 
from the smallest mip map level all the way up to potentially a 2048 by 
2048 top level image.  Even if you are only seeing 16 pixels of it off 
in the distance, the entire 12 meg stack might need to be loaded.

Packing can also cause some amount of wasted texture memory.  When you 
want to load a two meg texture, it is likely going to require a lot 
more than just two megs of free texture memory, because a lot of it is 
going to be scattered around in 8k to 64k blocks.  At the pathological 
limit, this can waste half your texture memory, but more reasonably it 
is only going to be 10% or so, and cause a few extra texture swap outs.

On a frame at a time basis, there are often significant amounts of 
texels even in referenced mip levels that are not seen.  The back sides 
of characters, and large textures on floors can often have less than 
50% of their texels used during a frame.  This is only an issue as they 
are being swapped in, because they will very likely be needed within 
the next few frames.  The result is one big hitch instead of a steady 
loading.

There are schemes that can help with these problems, but they have 
costs.

Packing losses can be addressed with compaction, but that has rarely 
proven to be worthwhile in the history of memory management.  A 128-bit 
graphics accelerator could compact and sort 10 megs of texture memory 
in about 10 msec if desired.

The problems with large textures can be solved by just not using large 
textures.  Both packing losses, and non- referenced texels can be 
reduced by chopping everything up into 64x64 or 128x128 textures.  This 
requires preprocessing, adds geometry, and requires messy overlap of 
the textures to avoid seaming problems.

It is possible to estimate which mip levels will actually be needed and 
only swap those in.   An application can’t calculate exactly the mip 
map levels that will be referenced by the hardware, because there are 
slight variations between chips and the slope calculation would add 
significant processing overhead.  A conservative upper bound can be 
taken by looking at the minimum normal distance of any vertex 
referencing a given texture in a frame.  This will overestimate the 
required textures by 2x or so and still leave a big hit when the top 
mip level loads for big textures, but it can allow giant cathedral 
style scenes to render without swapping.

Clever programmers can always work harder to overcome obstacles, but in 
this case, there is a clear hardware solution that gives better 
performance than anything possible with software and just makes 
everyone’s lives easier: virtualize the card’s view of its local 
memory.

With page tables, address fragmentation isn’t an issue, and with the 
graphics rasterizer only causing a page load when something from that 
exact 4k block is needed, the mip level problems and hidden texture 
problems just go away.  Nothing sneaky has to be done by the 
application or driver, you just manage page indexes.
 
The hardware requirements are not very heavy.  You need translation 
lookaside buffers (TLB) on the graphics chip, the ability to 
automatically load the TLB from a page table set up in local memory, 
and the ability to move a page from AGP or PCI into graphics memory and 
update the page tables and reference counts.   You don’t even need that 
many TLB, because graphics access patterns don’t hop all over the place 
like CPU access can.  Even with only a single TLB for each texture 
bilerp unit, reloads would only account for about 1/32 of the memory 
access if the textures were 4k blocked.  All you would really want at 
the upper limit would be enough TLB for each texture unit to cover the 
texels referenced on a typical rasterization scan line.

Some programmers will say “I don’t want the system to manage the 
textures, I want full control!”  There are a couple responses to that.  
First, a page level management scheme has flexibility that you just 
can’t get with a software only scheme, so it is a set of brand new 
capabilities.  Second, you can still just choose to treat it as a fixed 
size texture buffer a