
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: pdeupree
Plan modified: Fri Sep 04 12:31:42 1998

09/04/98
--------

Whew.  The code is done and the CD should be burning soon for the ECTS demo.
Battle mode is looking AWESOME now.  Corrinne gave me a mystech effect to use
that is very cool, and Will made some music that is awesome (though Tom didn't
have the CD handy, so he put in the Star Wars theme and that worked also).
There is this map with a good wide open space and we've got a battle set up
between 3 different enemy types, and 3 party members.  With getting this
working so that it looks good, flows well, has enemies with some form of
intelligence, and ends with a flourish it's been quite a month.  In addition
I got the code for storing inventory for the party and NPC shop keepers, and
allowing purchase and sales interaction with the shop keepers in there.  We
don't quite have the interface for this interaction yet, but it's still
progress.

Now it's off to a restful labor day weekend of getting my butt kicked by a bunch
of high rank Karate folks.  I can already feel the pain.  :)
(But it's a good pain.  Honestly.)

08/25/98
--------

Been busy, busy, busy on Anachronox battle mode stuff.  I've hooked up the
character animations and sound so that the battle have a lot more life.  It's
really cool to see the battle play out with sweeping camera movements,
enemies jumping over to whack your character in the head with the chunk of wood
they're carrying, and laser beams cutting into your enemy.  We don't quite
have the Leviathan spell from the Final Fantasy VIII demo yet, but Lee's
thinking of things.  Even if I've said it before, I'll say it again.  This game
is going to be very cool.


08/03/98
--------

I've changed my mind.  I'm playing Final Fantasy II instead of Resident Evil
now.  I picked up the game in an auction a little ways back and I never got
around to playing it, so now I'm taking the time (late at night) to get my
money's worth from the game.  To be honest, it's games like that that show
me that graphics aren't everything.  Since this game is many years old, the
graphics are obviously very substandard to todays, but I am very absorbed in
the game because of pure gameplay and plot.  It's also really interesting
to see just how much of the Final Fantasy series has survived over the years
(including that silly song that plays when riding a Chocobo).

In addition, my wife and I went to an arcade game auction this Saturday and we
picked up a pinball machine and two video arcade games that need a little work,
so I'm breaking out the old soldering iron and getting back into electronics in
my spare time.  That should be pretty cool.  I have not had a decent electronic
project since maintaining my Apple II as a kid.  Anyone out there know of a good
place to get schematics for arcade games that are around 3 years old?

In the meantime, Anachronox is coming along very well.  I spent some time last
week wandering around in one of our battle test maps and getting my butt kicked
by the enemies on the map.  I cranked up their stats because they were too easy
to beat one on one, but then when fighting 3 of them it became a bit tougher
since they heal themselves and start throwing the big guns at you when they are
low on health.  So, I think it's time to lower those stats a bit.  I'm also
working on making things a bit easier for Jake and Tom to import their
character and item related data into the game.  Ultimately I want to make an
editor for that data, but right now it's too much fun getting the visuals going.

This game is going to be very cool.

07/24/98
--------

Well, I finally finished Final Fantasy VII.  I've got a huge stack of games at
home that I keep intending to finish, but I end up distracted by silly stuff
like new games that come out.  But I really wanted to finish this one off, so
I finally did.  Beside which, Tom has a FFVII watch that he told me he would
give me if I finally finished the game.  :)

I think I'm going to work on finishing Resident Evil next since that's another
one that got put to the side.  I've vowed not to buy another adventure or RPG
until I finish some of these, so finish them I will.

Anachronox is getting pretty cool.  I've gotten the battle system core and
the character stat/inventory system in there so we can have characters
progressing from battle to battle.  I have to say that after doing engine work
for quite a while it's going to be a lot of fun to finally just do gameplay
programming.  I've always been the type that loves to see everything really
come together in a game or project.  It's also great to get back to doing 3D
programming since I had been doing 2D stuff for 7th Level and Ion Storm for
the better part of 3 years.

Now for some non-game related stuff, this is for all those people that are
scared to drive next to a cement barrier with no shoulder on the highway.  I
think those fears are justified.  I was on my way north last night and the
highway was jammed because there was a semi in the right lane with a car
wedged between it and the cement barrier.  The car was almost literally
vertical, so it was pinned in there pretty well.  I think it's time they set
up a no semi policy on that stretch of the highway (like they have with Lake
Shore Drive in Chicago and the Merit Parkway in Connecticut).  It's pretty
dangerous to have such wide and long vehicles on a 2 lane stretch with concrete
on both sides.

07/15/98
--------

I sent e-mail to one of the anonymous anti-Ion web page folks out there
and heard no reply.  So, I'm going to post information on two of the topics
that I addressed with them.

I really want to correct a very common misconception that I've seen
numerous times when people talk about Dominion in the press.  I have seen
people talk about how long it took to develop Dominion, and how they saw
the game 3 years ago.  Dominion was not even conceived of until January of
1996, meaning that the statement that someone first heard about it 3
years ago is not correct.  Information about this title, and glances at it
only first happened at E3 in 1996, which would have been around May, meaning
that the first anyone in the general public would have heard of the title
would be a little over 2 years ago.  As a heads up, the first news of Starcraft
arrived before anyone would have really heard of Dominion.

Here is my best recollection of Dominions development history:


January 1996: One programmer was assigned to work on Dominion, plus a
week or two worth of work that I did "on the side".  It hadn't even been
approved at this time and work on it was done for the purpose of convincing
the powers that be that it was a viable thing to do.

February 1996: Andrew Welch was added and began working on map editing code.

April 1996: Dustin Nulf was added and took over the editor while Andrew moved
into more engine programming.

July 1996: I joined the team.  Here's where everything started to hit the fan.
Two days after I joined, the original programmer was let go from 7th Level and
Andrew was officially assigned as the Lead Programmer.  The original programmer
had been having personal problems during his work on the original tile code,
and as a result it was more or less unusable due to performance issues.  In
addition, 7th Level changed the architecture of their tool so that we had to
rewrite everything but the editor to fit into this new architecture.  The result
is that we threw away all the game code that had been written to that point
and had to start over.

Here's where I don't remember exact months, so I'll be a bit more general.

4th quarter 1996: Mario was added to Dominion and worked on the AI
programming.  In addition, it was at this time that Todd left 7th Level to
co-found Ion Storm.

2nd quarter 1997: Three GNome programmers were added, but they could only
work on the game part time while they prepared a patch for GNome.  They
did not really work on the game full time until the later part of the
quarter.  During this time, 7th Level also began to shop around for
companies to publish all of their games (at the time, that was Monty
Python's Meaning of Life, Return to Krondor, and Dominion).

3rd quarter 1997: Dominion got sold to Ion Storm.

4th quarter 1997: The Dominion team became employees of Ion Storm and shortly
thereafter Mario left to work for Ensemble.  Dan had to get familiar with
and take over the AI since most of the actual gameplay AI had not been
added up to that point.

2nd quarter 1998: Dominion ships.


I understand why some people seem to think Dominion took longer than it
really did.  I imagine it's due to the fact that 7th Level originally said
the game would be released by September/October of 1996.  The problem is
that most titles at 7th Level had a 6 month development cycle, and they
assumed that Dominion would not take much longer than the rest of their
titles.  However, Dominion started with an engine with no scrolling,
tiling, network, or acceptable sound merging technology and it wasn't
an edutainment or multimedia sprite game.

As I mentioned, StarCraft probably took the same amount of time to develop
that Dominion did.  However, they started with an existing engine that was
capable of scrolling, tiling, network gameplay, and decent sound support.
In addition, it was created by a stable company of game players and seasoned
game developers that didn't have to fight non-game players over design
decisions in the game.

All things considered (or even all things not considered), I'm quite happy
with what we were able to do with Dominion and I think that we were able
to do a lot of work in a relatively short amount of time.

The next topic I'm going to address is the fact that Dominion was sold
for $29.95 on the week it was released at CompUSA.  I've seen some folks
say this is a "bargain software" price.  If that's the case, I bought
Unreal for $31.95 on the week it was released, so I guess it's in just
about the same boat.

The reality is this.  There is a marketing study someplace that says when
a person goes to a store to buy an item, they will more than likely
buy more than just what they originally came there for.  So, what most
stores will do is advertise a game for a "bargain" price when it is first
released, and thereby pull in customers and possibly sell another game,
or a music CD, or a hard drive, or memory.

Due to the fact that I'm a game addict on a limited budget, I will pretty
much not buy a game for more than $35 (unless I REALLY, REALLY want it).
In order to keep within that budget, I either have to buy a game when it
first comes out so that I can take advantage of these initial release
prices, or I have to wait for it to be out for six months or so and get
it in the "bargain bin"

So, long winded as I might be, I wanted to clear up these two issues
regarding Dominion.

