*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: pdeupree
Plan modified: Mon Oct 12 11:43:59 1998

10/12/98
--------

Here's a buyer beware update that I wanted to post.  This Saturday I bought a
shrinkwrapped DVD and brought it home.  Upon opening it, I discovered that
inside was actually a Sound Blaster driver CD with scratches all over it.  I
went back to the store to return with this fear that they would hassle me,
since how would they know I didn't make the switch.  It turns out that this
is becoming more common.  Some idiots out there will actually buy DVD's,
switch the disk with something less useful, and go to a shrink wrap outfit
to seal it back up again.  So, the moral of this story is that I will open
DVD's before I leave the store (after I purchase them of course), so that
I can ensure I havn't been burned by one of these cretins.  It's idiots like
these that continue to make it harder and harder for consumers to return
merchandise to stores.

In the meantime, work progresses on Anachronox.  I'm getting into some really
cool stuff right now with client animation of models and it has made battle
mode a LOT easier to manage.  I've got in a bunch of different animations for
status effects, and for different types of attack and with the exception of
one little glitch (that appears to be fairly deep in the engine), it all looks
great.

09/23/98
--------

On a slightly non-game related subject (though I found out about this thing on
Gamespot originally), there's a new lego product line out called Mindstorms.
Basically, for any of you folks out there that, like me, were totally
fascinated by robotics as a kid, this is almost a dream come true.  It's
basically the Lego Technics line (gears, axles, differentials, etc) combined
with a control unit with 3 inputs and 3 outputs that you can program via your
computer to trigger output based on input and such.  The one thing I'll warn
is that the "development environment" that comes with the kit is targeted so
that 12 year old kids can use it, so it's not a "language", but more of a drag
and drop stack of commands.

However, as with all good inventions, there are folks out there that have been
good enough to disassemble these units and figure out exactly what the unit is
expecting.  In addition, the programming tool that comes with the kit seems to
center around a Windows OCX, so it should be possible for any programmer to write
their own interface (or language) to communicate with this thing (and there are
those out there that have already done so).

Check out the following 2 pages if it's of any interest:
http://www.legomindstorms.com
http://www.crynwr.com/lego-robotics/

I got the last unit at the Toys R Us by where I live, and the guy that helped
me out told me that some robotics club in town has been running around buying up
all the units they could find.  I didn't get any batteries for the thing, so I
havn't actually been able to use it myself yet, but once I get those batteries
tonight I have a feeling I won't be getting much sleep.  :)

09/17/98
--------

OK.  I know I said it a ways back, but given the recent e-mail from the Texas
Martini Foundation guy, I think it bears repeating.  Please do NOT send me 
e-mail unless it is relevant to either Anachronox, Ion Storm, or something
I've posted in this plan file.  An example of good e-mail would be the people
that responded to my query for finding information on the video arcade game
I bought.  Another example would be the e-mail I've received asking further
questions about battles in Anachronox and how they will be handled.  An example
of bad e-mail is asking if I want to buy a spam e-mail list, asking if I want
to make $1000 a day without even trying, or asking me to boycott fans sites of
our (and I mean this in the most general sense of being a game developer) games.

Also, since I don't really want to propegate the e-mail reply's any further, and
for the general publics information, here's what the TM guy has a problem with.
He wants to boycott PlanetShogo because the folks behind PlanetQuake and its
spinoff's have been "leeching off of the success of id Software games for a long
time now, but this has evolved from a simple one site Quake community into a
moneymaking machine".

As both a game developer and a consumer, here's my take on this.  Any publicity,
recognition, or fan base for a game I work on is a good thing.  If the people
maintaining that publicity, recognition or fan base are making money doing so,
then that's fine.  It's not like PlanetShogo is going to contain a full version
of the game that will take away from the sale of the game.  If anything, the
existence of such a site will build a larger fan base for the game, and it
doesn't cost Monolith a cent for the promotion of the game they will get from
that site.  If PlanetShogo did do something that blatantly ripped off the game
like selling T-Shirts with the Shogo logo or name on it, then I would be behind
confronting them on the issue.  On the other hand, if they use the money
received from people that willingly advertise or purchase space on the site to
maintain said site, then I personally don't see the problem.

Now, back to business.  Anachronox is coming along.  I'm getting status effects
(e.g. Poison, etc) into battle now so that's pretty cool.  I had to improve the
monster AI a little so that they will cure status effects if they have something
to cure it with, and they will now use items a little more intelligently.  Some
of these guys are going to be fairly tough to fight.  :)

09/04/98
--------

Whew.  The code is done and the CD should be burning soon for the ECTS demo.
Battle mode is looking AWESOME now.  Corrinne gave me a mystech effect to use
that is very cool, and Will made some music that is awesome (though Tom didn't
have the CD handy, so he put in the Star Wars theme and that worked also).
There is this map with a good wide open space and we've got a battle set up
between 3 different enemy types, and 3 party members.  With getting this
working so that it looks good, flows well, has enemies with some form of
intelligence, and ends with a flourish it's been quite a month.  In addition
I got the code for storing inventory for the party and NPC shop keepers, and
allowing purchase and sales interaction with the shop keepers in there.  We
don't quite have the interface for this interaction yet, but it's still
progress.

Now it's off to a restful labor day weekend of getting my butt kicked by a bunch
of high rank Karate folks.  I can already feel the pain.  :)
(But it's a good pain.  Honestly.)

08/25/98
--------

Been busy, busy, busy on Anachronox battle mode stuff.  I've hooked up the
character animations and sound so that the battle have a lot more life.  It's
really cool to see the battle play out with sweeping camera movements,
enemies jumping over to whack your character in the head with the chunk of wood
they're carrying, and laser beams cutting into your enemy.  We don't quite
have the Leviathan spell from the Final Fantasy VIII demo yet, but Lee's
thinking of things.  Even if I've said it before, I'll say it again.  This game
is going to be very cool.


08/03/98
--------

I've changed my mind.  I'm playing Final Fantasy II instead of Resident Evil
now.  I picked up the game in an auction a little ways back and I never got
around to playing it, so now I'm taking the time (late at night) to get my
money's worth from the game.  To be honest, it's games like that that show
me that graphics aren't everything.  Since this game is many years old, the
graphics are obviously very substandard to todays, but I am very absorbed in
the game because of pure gameplay and plot.  It's also really interesting
to see just how much of the Final Fantasy series has survived over the years
(including that silly song that plays when riding a Chocobo).

In addition, my wife and I went to an arcade game auction this Saturday and we
picked up a pinball machine and two video arcade games that need a little work,
so I'm breaking out the old soldering iron and getting back into electronics in
my spare time.  That should be pretty cool.  I have not had a decent electronic
project since maintaining my Apple II as a kid.  Anyone out there know of a good
place to get schematics for arcade games that are around 3 years old?

In the meantime, Anachronox is coming along very well.  I spent some time last
week wandering around in one of our battle test maps and getting my butt kicked
by the enemies on the map.  I cranked up their stats because they were too easy
to beat one on one, but then when fighting 3 of them it became a bit tougher
since they heal themselves and start throwing the big guns at you when they are
low on health.  So, I think it's time to lower those stats a bit.  I'm also
working on making things a bit easier for Jake and Tom to import their
character and item related data into the game.  Ultimately I want to make an
editor for that data, but right now it's too much fun getting the visuals going.

This game is going to be very cool.

07/24/98
--------

Well, I finally finished Final Fantasy VII.  I've got a huge stack of games at
home that I keep intending to finish, but I end up distracted by silly stuff
like new games that come out.  But I really wanted to finish this one off, so
I finally did.  Beside which, Tom has a FFVII watch that he told me he would
give me if I finally finished the game.  :)

I think I'm going to work on finishing Resident Evil next since that's another
one that got put to the side.  I've vowed not to buy another adventure or RPG
until I finish some of these, so finish them I will.

Anachronox is getting pretty cool.  I've gotten the battle system core and
the character stat/inventory system in there so we can have characters
progressing from battle to battle.  I have to say that after doing engine work
for quite a while it's going to be a lot of fun to finally just do gameplay
programming.  I've always been the type that loves to see everything really
come together in a game or project.  It's also great to get back to doing 3D
programming since I had been doing 2D stuff for 7th Level and Ion Storm for
the better part of 3 years.

Now for some non-game related stuff, this is for all those people that are
scared to drive next to a cement barrier with no shoulder on the highway.  I
think those fears are justified.  I was on my way north last night and the
highway was jammed because there was a semi in the right lane with a car
wedged between it and the cement barrier.  The car was almost literally
vertical, so it was pinned in there pretty well.  I think it's time they set
up a no semi policy on that stretch of the highway (like they have with Lake
Shore Drive in Chicago and the Merit Parkway in Connecticut).  It's pretty
dangerous to have such wide and long vehicles on a 2 lane stretch with concrete
on both sides.