*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: pdeupree
Plan modified: Tue Dec 22 21:05:09 1998

12/22/98
--------

A few final parting words for this year since the office is shutting down for
maintenance and this will be my last plan update for 1998.

If you're a Southpark fan, buy the Chef Aid album.  It is hilarious.
I don't think you'll find a more messed up assortment of artists on one
album, with music that is actually pretty damn good.  Hell, it's worth it
just to hear the voice of Eric Cartman singing the Styx song "Come Sail Away".
Trey Parker must have gargled a jug of saltwater to sooth his throat after
singing that one.

I hope everyone has a great Christmas and new year.  I wonder how
many copies of the Prince album with the song "1999" will be selling this
season.  :)  Heck, I wonder if the Sci-Fi channel or someone will be running
a Space 1999 marathon.  It's interesting to see how behind the times a lot of
estimates were for how far along we'd be technologically.  Some how, I don't
think we'll reach the technology of HAL and the Discovery come 2001.

I'm outta here for the year.

12/11/98
--------

Here's a freaky little coincidence.  The picture of Freeman that Half-Life
displays on the screen when you're loading a game looks a LOT like me, with
the exception of the glasses.  It is very weird seeing that face displayed
every time I load a game.

I've only been able to dedicate about an hour a night to playing Half-Life,
but I think I'm about 2/3 through the game.  There was a truly awesome
scene I went through last night that really shows the way this game puts
you in an action movie.  I don't want to give it away, but simple as it was,
this part of the game really impressed me.

My weekends I've been dedicating to Christmas parties and Zelda 64.  I'm
probably half way through Zelda and it continues to be very cool (and getting
very hard also).  Again, I don't want to give anything away by saying where
I'm at, but I am so glad I pre-ordered this game.  I almost didn't because of
money issues, but was finally beaten into submission by Jake.

Anyhow, I repeat my recommendation of these games.  Half-Life, Zelda 64 and
Metal Gear Solid are the first games in about a year that have really
compelled me or are compelling me to play until I'm finished.

12/1/98
--------

Well, it's been a busy week or two in game playing for me (I took the 5
business days before Thanksgiving off to get things done around my house).
It was a pretty wild week here while I was gone.  However, I'm back now
and everything is going very well here.

In the meantime, while I was gone, I finished off Metal Gear Solid, and
last night finished playing Grim Fandango (both excellent games).  Now I'm
working on playing Half-Life and Zelda 64 (got my gold pre-order copy the
day it hit Toys R' Us).  The way Zelda uses the rumble pack and dynamic
music are the best I've seen yet for the Nintendo 64.

Regarding the work scene, I've decided to rewrite some code I did before
for inventory and character data storage and management.  I've got a new
way of doing this that is VERY dynamic and should make it easy to extend
the capabilities for possible user mods and for our own use.  It's going
to be very easy to add new fields of capability to items or characters
now.

11/3/98
--------

On the biz side of things, I can now say that I'm adding bugs and garbage
to my code in Anachronox.  I've got some cool ambient garbage that blows
around the streets and occasionally gets caught up in swirling eddy's, plus
a bunch of insects that skitter around the place.  There's also another
"creature" I've added in that you'll just have to wait to see since I don't
want to give away the surprise.  :)

With this latest code, and the stuff I put in for ambient movement and action
definition for the NPC's, the streets of Anachronox should really be coming
to life soon.  I also added in a bunch of code for the player to interact with
the environment (run talk animations, open chests, pick stuff up, etc).I can't
wait to see what the level designers will do with all of this.

On the general game biz front, I picked up Grim Fandango and it's a very cool
adventure game.  To be honest, I'd been getting somewhat burned out on this
genre recently, but this game rekindles my faith.  I can't say that there has
ever been an adventure game Lucas Arts has put out that I didn't like, so they
are pretty much maintaining a good tradition.

I've also been playing Metal Gear Solid.  Very cool game.  Upon the
recommendation of others here, I'm also going to pick up Tenchu since I've
heard that, in ways, its better than Metal Gear Solid so I've got to see
what it's all about.  It's tough being a game addict.

10/23/98
--------

I just wanted to say that Klingon Honor Guard is a VERY cool shooter.  I
don't think I've had as much fun and challenge in a 1st person shooter
(released or demo) since I played Jedi Knight.  It, unfortunately, has
inherited some of the early Unreal bugs (they are apparantly working on
integrating all the Unreal patches into their code base now) so it won't
work on Cyrix based machines, and has a problem with the SB Live, but
luckily I have an Intel P400 and havn't installed my SB Live at home yet,
so it runs great on my system.

I think the thing that impressed me most about the game is the fact that it
is the first shooter I've ever played that effectively uses close combat
weapons.  There are places in here where if you try to shoot your way out,
you will get your ass kicked, but if you break out your trusty Batlif (I
know I just messed up the spelling for that, but I don't live and breath
Klingon, so I'm not sure how to spell it) you can kick some serious ass.

So, if you have the horsepower to run it (at the very least I'd say a PII/266
with a Voodoo2) then I highly recommend this game.

10/12/98
--------

Here's a buyer beware update that I wanted to post.  This Saturday I bought a
shrinkwrapped DVD and brought it home.  Upon opening it, I discovered that
inside was actually a Sound Blaster driver CD with scratches all over it.  I
went back to the store to return with this fear that they would hassle me,
since how would they know I didn't make the switch.  It turns out that this
is becoming more common.  Some idiots out there will actually buy DVD's,
switch the disk with something less useful, and go to a shrink wrap outfit
to seal it back up again.  So, the moral of this story is that I will open
DVD's before I leave the store (after I purchase them of course), so that
I can ensure I havn't been burned by one of these cretins.  It's idiots like
these that continue to make it harder and harder for consumers to return
merchandise to stores.

In the meantime, work progresses on Anachronox.  I'm getting into some really
cool stuff right now with client animation of models and it has made battle
mode a LOT easier to manage.  I've got in a bunch of different animations for
status effects, and for different types of attack and with the exception of
one little glitch (that appears to be fairly deep in the engine), it all looks
great.

09/23/98
--------

On a slightly non-game related subject (though I found out about this thing on
Gamespot originally), there's a new lego product line out called Mindstorms.
Basically, for any of you folks out there that, like me, were totally
fascinated by robotics as a kid, this is almost a dream come true.  It's
basically the Lego Technics line (gears, axles, differentials, etc) combined
with a control unit with 3 inputs and 3 outputs that you can program via your
computer to trigger output based on input and such.  The one thing I'll warn
is that the "development environment" that comes with the kit is targeted so
that 12 year old kids can use it, so it's not a "language", but more of a drag
and drop stack of commands.

However, as with all good inventions, there are folks out there that have been
good enough to disassemble these units and figure out exactly what the unit is
expecting.  In addition, the programming tool that comes with the kit seems to
center around a Windows OCX, so it should be possible for any programmer to write
their own interface (or language) to communicate with this thing (and there are
those out there that have already done so).

Check out the following 2 pages if it's of any interest:
http://www.legomindstorms.com
http://www.crynwr.com/lego-robotics/

I got the last unit at the Toys R Us by where I live, and the guy that helped
me out told me that some robotics club in town has been running around buying up
all the units they could find.  I didn't get any batteries for the thing, so I
havn't actually been able to use it myself yet, but once I get those batteries
tonight I have a feeling I won't be getting much sleep.  :)