
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: pdeupree
Plan modified: Thu Jan 14 12:50:29 1999

1/14/99 (part 2)
-------

Based on an e-mail I just received, I feel I should point something out.  It is
standard practice at most companies I've worked at to monitor internal company
e-mail on occasion.  I think that most employee handbooks I've received have
stated that all e-mail sent from or received by the company computer belong to
the company you work for.  This enables companies to track potential leaks of
information (very important in public companies, and still important in private
ones).  It also enables companies to see if their computers are being used for
inappropriate use (e.g. something that might not be in the companies best
interest).  However, at no point in time have I ever had a company use my own
e-mail against me in any way shape or form, and I have never had a company even
refer to an e-mail I've ever sent or received.

1/14/99
-------

When I was in my 2nd or 3rd year of college, Bob McFarlane came to speak at
my campus.  For those that don't know who he is, he and Oliver North were pretty
much the primary people implicated in the Iran/Contra affair many moons ago.
A group of people gathered at the college to protest his speaking at the college
(not to protest him personally, but to protest his right to speak).  A few of
these people took it upon themselves to interrupt his speech also.

At that point I started really getting interested in freedom of speech.  I wrote a
letter to the editor of our school magazine (and subsequently became a writer for
them) and also wrote a few essays on the subject.

At this point you may be wondering where I'm going with this.  Well, recently a
few ex-employees have had less than glorious things to say about Ion Storm and
various people here.  Up to this point I have not said anything about these
things, despite the fact that I don't respect the fact that some people feel that
their need for personal revenge takes precedence over the other lives they harm
in the process.  Everyone has the right to freedom of speech, even if what they
say harms people, and I will support the right to freedom of speech until the day
I die.

However, here is where I get into a philisophical issue.  The people at my college
that protested Bob McFarlene were there.  I could see their faces, I could ask them
their names.  They did not hide behind a cloud of anonymity.  They were willing to
stand behind what they believed in.

Most of the anit-Ion information that I've seen recently has been provided
anonymously.  To this end, how does this affect ones right to freedom of speech?
When someone can make verbal (or written as the case may be) attacks on people
without being known, then it becomes so much easier for people to attack
frivolously.  Imagine a device existed that would allow you to smack a person in
such a way that they would never know who you were?  How many people would use such
a device?  Hell, I would have been sorely tempted to use it on the lady driving in
front of me on the highway today.

Another interesting and much more dangerous issue is when those same anonymous people
actually steal private e-mail from others and either post that e-mail themselves, or
hand that e-mail to someone else where they can reprint parts of that e-mail.  To be
honest, just the fact that someone would read someone elses e-mail to begin with
bothers me.  People are so worried about Big Brother watching them that they've
forgotten about the guy next door that might be spying on them as well.  Actually
handing private, stolen materials over to another source bothers me to no end.

I think the thing that bothers me the most about this whole affair is that I just
don't know who to trust anymore.  This information that has been going around could
be coming from any recent ex-employee of the company (and I say recent based upon
the up to date nature of the information).  I trusted and had faith in just about
all of the people I worked with here, and I wished everyone that left well on their
new jobs and/or companies.  Now, however, I'm left not knowing what to think about
these people and that disturbs me.  I hate the thought that, in my mind, I just
can't be sure which people to blame, and which not to blame, so they all get
caught up in the mix.

So, to those people that have left and didn't circulate any of this information,
it's a shame that these anonymous people have gotten you caught up in this mess as
well.  To those people that have left and circulated this information, I hope
that this will all stop for the sake of everyone that has ever been involved with
Ion Storm since this isn't doing any of us any good.

12/22/98
--------

A few final parting words for this year since the office is shutting down for
maintenance and this will be my last plan update for 1998.

If you're a Southpark fan, buy the Chef Aid album.  It is hilarious.
I don't think you'll find a more messed up assortment of artists on one
album, with music that is actually pretty damn good.  Hell, it's worth it
just to hear the voice of Eric Cartman singing the Styx song "Come Sail Away".
Trey Parker must have gargled a jug of saltwater to sooth his throat after
singing that one.

I hope everyone has a great Christmas and new year.  I wonder how
many copies of the Prince album with the song "1999" will be selling this
season.  :)  Heck, I wonder if the Sci-Fi channel or someone will be running
a Space 1999 marathon.  It's interesting to see how behind the times a lot of
estimates were for how far along we'd be technologically.  Some how, I don't
think we'll reach the technology of HAL and the Discovery come 2001.

I'm outta here for the year.

12/11/98
--------

Here's a freaky little coincidence.  The picture of Freeman that Half-Life
displays on the screen when you're loading a game looks a LOT like me, with
the exception of the glasses.  It is very weird seeing that face displayed
every time I load a game.

I've only been able to dedicate about an hour a night to playing Half-Life,
but I think I'm about 2/3 through the game.  There was a truly awesome
scene I went through last night that really shows the way this game puts
you in an action movie.  I don't want to give it away, but simple as it was,
this part of the game really impressed me.

My weekends I've been dedicating to Christmas parties and Zelda 64.  I'm
probably half way through Zelda and it continues to be very cool (and getting
very hard also).  Again, I don't want to give anything away by saying where
I'm at, but I am so glad I pre-ordered this game.  I almost didn't because of
money issues, but was finally beaten into submission by Jake.

Anyhow, I repeat my recommendation of these games.  Half-Life, Zelda 64 and
Metal Gear Solid are the first games in about a year that have really
compelled me or are compelling me to play until I'm finished.

12/1/98
--------

Well, it's been a busy week or two in game playing for me (I took the 5
business days before Thanksgiving off to get things done around my house).
It was a pretty wild week here while I was gone.  However, I'm back now
and everything is going very well here.

In the meantime, while I was gone, I finished off Metal Gear Solid, and
last night finished playing Grim Fandango (both excellent games).  Now I'm
working on playing Half-Life and Zelda 64 (got my gold pre-order copy the
day it hit Toys R' Us).  The way Zelda uses the rumble pack and dynamic
music are the best I've seen yet for the Nintendo 64.

Regarding the work scene, I've decided to rewrite some code I did before
for inventory and character data storage and management.  I've got a new
way of doing this that is VERY dynamic and should make it easy to extend
the capabilities for possible user mods and for our own use.  It's going
to be very easy to add new fields of capability to items or characters
now.

11/3/98
--------

On the biz side of things, I can now say that I'm adding bugs and garbage
to my code in Anachronox.  I've got some cool ambient garbage that blows
around the streets and occasionally gets caught up in swirling eddy's, plus
a bunch of insects that skitter around the place.  There's also another
"creature" I've added in that you'll just have to wait to see since I don't
want to give away the surprise.  :)

With this latest code, and the stuff I put in for ambient movement and action
definition for the NPC's, the streets of Anachronox should really be coming
to life soon.  I also added in a bunch of code for the player to interact with
the environment (run talk animations, open chests, pick stuff up, etc).I can't
wait to see what the level designers will do with all of this.

On the general game biz front, I picked up Grim Fandango and it's a very cool
adventure game.  To be honest, I'd been getting somewhat burned out on this
genre recently, but this game rekindles my faith.  I can't say that there has
ever been an adventure game Lucas Arts has put out that I didn't like, so they
are pretty much maintaining a good tradition.

I've also been playing Metal Gear Solid.  Very cool game.  Upon the
recommendation of others here, I'm also going to pick up Tenchu since I've
heard that, in ways, its better than Metal Gear Solid so I've got to see
what it's all about.  It's tough being a game addict.

