
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: pdeupree
Plan modified: Thu Jun 03 10:58:22 1999

6/3/99
-------

I just finished playing the Star Wars: Phantom Menace game and I have to say
that, for the most part, it is an AWESOME game.  I say "for the most part"
because there is one annoying aspect to the game, and that is the fact that
they put some of the dreaded "jumping" puzzles into the game.  Luckily, the
ones in this are not near as annoying as ones I've had to deal with in other
games, so it really is a minor annoyance.

One good thing for me in playing this game is the fact that I have not seen
the movie yet.  So, the plot that develops over the course of the game was
all fresh for me.  Given the less than stellar reports I've heard of the
movie, I think I might have taken the right approach since I completely
enjoyed playing this game.

Oh, and as an FYI, this is pretty much an action game.  I think some of the
previews called it an adventure game, and there are adventure elements such
as conversation trees and "find the part", but you still spend most of your
time hacking your way through robots, sand people, and others.

The adventure element brings me to an interesting observation.  In talking to
people I've confirmed how closely the plot of the game follows that of the
movie.  It almost seems that the movie was written in such a way that it would
be ideally suited for making a game based on the same plot.  I say this because
of the types of quests that you embarked on in the game.  I won't say any more
so that I don't spoil things for the other 1 person out there that hasn't seen
The Phantom Menace yet.  I just found it interesting how well suited the plot
of the film was to a game.

4/8/99
-------

Spam sucks (and I'm not talking about that chopped pig parts stuff in a can
that Monty Python sings about).

Now that I've vented that one, Anachronox is kicking ass these days.  We're
getting some cool things in the game that will help both the gameplay and
the visual appearance of the game.  In addition, I've just gotten the first
run at using DirectMusic in the game.  I'm looking forward to having interactive
music in this game.  I was pretty impressed when I was playing Banjo Kazooie on
the N64 and I would hear a slow transition in the music when I got near this
pirate ship in the middle of the "level".  Little things like that can really
affect the atmosphere of a game.

I keep thinking about movies like Blade Runner and Last Temptation of Christ
where the music was so subtle, but yet I think it had a direct effect on the
mood of the movie.  Here's hoping we can achive the same thing.  ;)

