Login name: richf     			In real life: Rich Fleider
Directory: /Users/richf             	Shell: /bin/csh
Never logged in.
Plan:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8/20/97
OPEN LETTER TO JIM MOLINETS OF ROGUE ENTERTAINMENT

Jim-

I just had to comment on your finger file rant, I can remain silent no more. 
It's one thing to confess to the world in such a sickeningly public way about 
your particular kink, I'm as much an open minded guy as the next deviant but 
I take offense to your accusations that cast dispersions on my good name and 
solid reputation as an upstanding member of this community. I'm sick and tired 
of being pushed around by the moral majority at Rogue who take on this holier-
than-thou attitude even after I've been aquitted of all charges. As I've had to 
explain to everyone who has approached me in all the public appearances that 
I've made, that sordid incident is behind me now. I've just committed myself 
to making the best games that I can make. You among all people should know 
that just because I was diagnosed as a mildly paranoid schizophrenic that 
shouldn't stop me from making quality artwork. You shouldn't feel superior 
just because you don't have voices in your head urging you on to silence more 
of the mocking sacks of flesh whose laughing faces taunt you everywhere you 
look even after you watched them sink into the Trinity river.

Feeling like you are constantly being put on trial each and every day is 
damaging to one's sense of well being. Just ask Steve Maines. He is constantly 
being hassled by the police and irate farmers for his unfortunate fondness 
for, shall we say, "non-bipedal companionship" (once again I'm not judging the 
lifestyles of others no matter how twisted they are) and he always comes to 
work with that worn out and haggard look. It's gotten so bad that Rogue has 
been forced to look for another artist to take his place.

I prefer to concentrate on my professional achievements and isn't that what 
having a finger file is all about? People don't care to hear the personal 
ravings of a self-absorbed looser. I want to go on record as saying that I 
don't think that there is anything wrong with admitting that you are a cross-
dresser but perhaps this just isn't the forum. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7/23/97
O.K. I finally have something valid to say that I'd like to get people's 
opinion on. 

I've been hearing a lot about the up-coming All-Female Tournament and I just 
wanted to get some clarification here. 

I was under the (possibly mistaken) impression that most, if not all, of the 
Quake players that just happen to be women seek only to be treated as equals 
(if not superiors) to the Quake players who just happen to be men without all 
the demeaning and condescending comments that they routinely encounter. What I 
don't understand is the playfully mysoginystic attitude thatis officially 
condoned within the Quake community.

I'm willing to overlook the possible separatist nature of an all female 
tournament but I really have to take exception to some of the proposed prizes. 
According to the AFT website, the prizes for the lucky and talented players 
include garter belts and cosmetics. Could the irrelevant differences between 
the sexes be emphasized more? Why not just give away matching black pleather 
peek-a-boo bra, split-crotch panty, and 6" spike heel ensembles?!

Maybe I'm just not getting the point. Maybe we shouldn't just try to ignore 
the differences. Maybe I'm just reading too much into this but if I were 
striving for equality I certainly wouldn't feel good about a high profile 
event playing up on the very image that I was trying to shake off. 

Sorry, I'm done ranting now.

Oh yeah, since we are counted among the official sponsors of this tournament, 
I should probably mention that the viewpoints that I've expressed are solely 
mine and are not necessarily the viewpoints of Rogue Entertainment, associates 
of Rogue, friends of Rogue, family members of Rogue, or anyone who looks like 
Rogue.

Sheesh! I never thought I'd see the day that I felt the need to include an 
official disclaimer in my plan file.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Don't you have anything better to do than finger me? 
Turn off your computer and go outside or something! 
Take up a hobby. Find a date. Get a life.























You're still here? It's over. Go home. Go.