Login: richf          			Name: Richard Flieder
Directory: /usr/users/richf         	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Never logged in.
New mail received Thu Oct 22 20:46 1998 (CDT)
     Unread since Thu Oct 22 14:28 1998 (CDT)
Mail forwarded to: "|exec /usr/local/bin/procmail"
Plan:
8/28/98

We just returned from celebrating my 29th birthday at our semi-traditional 
birthday lunch place, the local neighborhood Hooters. I guess Berenger broke 
the little red wagon on his birthday since it was unavailable for me. Instead, 
I got to shake my money maker in a vain attempt to look cool while 
hula-hooping. 

Hooters is a strange place. I'm comfortable going to a "gentleman's club" 
(mysteriously, they let me in anyway) but you pretty much know where you stand 
there. The women dance nekked for your amusement while they take all of your 
money. It's okay if you stare at the dancers with a feral gleam in your eye, 
the primitive proto-human animal part of your brain hoping that they will fall 
and sprain an ankle, thereby showing weakness so that you can bonk them over 
the head and drag them back to your lair. They encourage you to be lecherous 
and drool over them like the mindless dogs you are.

Hooters is a different story altogether. The women are scantily clad in tight 
fitting revealing outfits but there are also families with children there 
eating right next to you. The same girl who casually rests her hand on your 
thigh in order to get a bigger tip, also serves little Billy his buffalo wing 
kiddie meal. It's a little odd I tell you. Not that I'm complaining, mind you, 
it's just not clear when you are supposed to stare at the heaving and teaming 
bosom of your waitress. 

I just know it's not a good idea to try it when your girlfriend is sitting 
next to you and scorching the side of your head with an intense glare of 
hatred for being subjected to this hideous display of Male Hormone Syndrome. 
Hey, nobody said I wasn't a complete bastard.

Next post: FAKING YOUR OWN DEATH IN 12 EASY LESSONS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
My old .plan files have been culled for your protection.