Login: richf          			Name: Richard Fleider
Plan:
3/8/99 

ALL HUMAN CATTLE MUST DIE!

For those gentile readers in the D/FW Metroplex, days like this should be a 
cause for concern: 

It's raining outside. 

That's right, water from the sky. This phenomenon can only mean one thing to 
D/FW residents, the rushing water has knocked over the rocks that all the 
brainless cretins have been living under and now it's time for them to get in 
their piece-of-shit cars and make the local highways a Russian roulette of 
road hazards. Something about a nice rain really brings out the braindead 
here. Every year without failure during the first real rainstorm, the 
encephalitically challenged shamble out onto the roads and make life a virtual 
Hell for everyone else with two neurons to rub together. The worst part about 
it is that WE CATER TO THESE PEOPLE!

On the way into work this morning, I heard the comforting and familiar 
Emergency Broadcast System warning tone on my car radio that advised people in 
the D/FW area that there was a flash flood alert. No shit Sherlock. Apparently 
in some shadow government conspiracy to water down the general intelligence 
level of the populace, the National Weather Service has issued several 
"guidelines" on how to handle flash floods. These are actual suggestions that 
were given out:

1) Since most flood deaths involve cars, do not attempt to cross any roads or 
bridges that are covered in water.
 
2) Do not attempt to wade through fast moving creeks, streams, or rivers on 
foot.

...and here is the real kicker:

3) To avoid rising water, seek higher ground.

These are all fine and wise suggestions but who really needs to be told these 
things?! I might give you the first two since I'm being generous but are there 
really people living among us who don't know to seek higher ground in an 
effort to avoid rising water?! Isn't this one of mankind's most simple 
survival instincts learned through countless generations of human evolution?! 
Do people need a refresher course on simple hind-brain functions?! What's 
next, Emergency Broadcast System warnings to walk away from buildings that are 
on fire ("Caution, uncontrolled roaring flames are hot.")?!

Now I fully realize that very small children might not have enough common 
sense to avoid the washed out bridge and they might just try to jump the 
General Lee over to the other side to avoid capture by Roscoe and Flash but 
any other semi-developed life form capable of operating an automobile should 
have at least gotten as far as the "rising water is bad, I should get 
someplace higher" lesson. 

At the risk of proposing a Naziesque Final Solution to the cretin problem, I 
propose that we, as a society, stop helping the human race devolve back into 
primordial soup by catering to the bottom feeders who just don't have what it 
takes to think for themselves in an effort to survive. Furthermore I'm 
planning to assemble a crack team of hired thugs and assassins who would roam 
the countryside and put a bullet in the brainpan of people who just plain 
shouldn't be allowed to breed. I'm working up a list of qualifications for 
targets of my death squad. This is what I've got from today's journey into the 
mouth of madness that was my ride to work:

M-7 Failing to turn on any vehicle lights while driving in heavy 
rain/fog/darkness.

M-7 Not allowing at least a few feet of following distance between cars/cutting 
off trucks.

M-7 Riding on the white lines between lanes (playing Ben Hur).

M-7 Truck drivers whose vehicles don't have any mudflaps causing even the 
lightest precipitation to be whipped up into a blinding sheet of water 
directed at any other vehicle foolish enough to try to pass.

M-7 Coming to a complete stop while partially submerged in a puddle of water.

These are just a few rainy weather crimes against intelligence, I'll have to 
take a few hours to compile a list of every day offences. I'm taking 
suggestions from the other people out there who have at least enough brain 
cells to be able to email me.   

Next post: SCHITZOPHERNIC HERMAPHRODITES, YOUR OWN BEST FRIEND!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
My old .plan files have been culled for your protection.

