Login: richf          			Name: Richard Fleider
Plan:
2/22/00 
Prepare to repel boarders!

Well it looks like we are finally going to go through with it. The deck of Rogue's pirate ship is getting a little too overcrowded now that we've swelled our mighty ranks to 14 stalwart crew members so we're taking over another fine vessel to have elbow room once again. By the end of this week we'll be relocating our office to the swanky and scenic Travis walk area of lovely downtown Dallas. We've been bemoaning our ever-shrinking personal space for months now but the new place is finally ready for us to swarm in and lower the surrounding property values. 

Personally I have some mixed emotions about the whole process. On the positive side, we will have a spacious new office with plenty of room to expand as we take on new crew (more on that a bit later). We'll also find ourselves within minutes of some of the finest dining and entertainment the Dallas area has to offer (and about a 5 minute drive from my apartment, yay!). No more Dicky's bar-b-que pit and mall kibble for us! No longer will we have to endure the furtive stares of the meek, frightened people sharing an elevator with us every day or the constant inane questioning from people who's idea of high culture is the local rodeo. Hell, we won't even have to stare out over the bleak and bitter landscape of slowly weathering strip malls and parking lots anymore. Needless to say, I won't miss Mesquite.

On the negative side, however, I can't look back at the time we've spent here without a powerful sense of nostalgia. As I mentioned in my last post, Rogue has been around for 5 years now and while that might not seem like a long time to an outside observer, the few people who know the whole story of our development know that it seemed like a lifetime. I can really only speak for myself but when I first moved to Texas I was a radically different person than I am now. I've seen relationships both personal and professional come and go, experienced proud accomplishment and crushing defeat, wished for the future and dreaded the next day. This place has been the backdrop of some of the toughest struggles and the greatest achievements in my life so far. I know that all of the success we will have in the future was paid for by the efforts we made here in this cramped little office in Mesquite.

Enough of that, I just realized that my "Next post" tagline from my last update for once is actually kind of relevant to this post! All this sentimentality must be getting to me.

Next post: WHO WANTS TO SLEEP WITH A SEVERAL THOUSANDARE! 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------