Login: richf          			Name: Richard Fleider
Directory: /usr/users/richf         	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Last login Sat Jul 15 18:05 (CDT) on ttyp0 from amd3
No Mail.
Mail forwarded to: "|exec /usr/local/bin/procmail"
Plan:
9/24/00

Despite the fact that we are knee-deep in crunch time for "Alice", I felt like I needed to share a sobering little experience I just had.

After spending the last several weeks working 12-16 hour days, I felt like I needed a bit of a break before the final big push so I spent the day with my girlfriend Riana (See, I told you I'd mention you by name in my plan file someday!) before coming back up here at night. We decided to go see a 5:00 showing of the theatrical re-release version of William Friedkin's 1973 horror classic, The Exorcist (her choice, go figure!). As we entered the theater, we were discussing just how scary the original version was and how cool it will be to see the "unedited" version on the wide screen since we were both too young and impressionable to see it when it first came out. After getting raped by the cost of the tickets and some refreshments, we settled into our seats and waited for the previews to start. 

That's when we noticed all the kids. 

In a room of maybe about 100-120 people, there were at least a dozen children who couldn't have been over 10 years old, some escorted by adults, other apparently unattended. It looked more like a late showing of Chicken Run than one of the most shocking films to come from the '70's. I was cringing throughout several of the more unsettling scenes in the movie knowing that there was an 8-year-old boy sitting right next to us. As anyone who has seen the movie can attest, it's a pretty rough ride. I doubt even Disney could put a child-friendly spin on demonic possession (though I'd pay top dollar to see them try). I don't blame the writers for using exceedingly vulgar language; it's there for a point. The devil should be played a little over the top or else the whole story wouldn't read as "realistically" as it did ("Your mother sucks Pop Rocks in H-E-Double-Hockey-Sticks!" just wouldn't have the same effect). The film earned its R rating for a good reason.

My point? Even the best-intentioned, mandatory rating systems fail if they are circumvented by parents that don't give a damn. Is the answer stronger regulation and enforcement of the rating system? I don't think so, not unless you want the government telling the rest of us responsible adults what is acceptable for us to view. The answer is smarter parents who understand the ramifications their actions have on their children. 

If you are an adult, go see this movie. It is rightfully regarded as one of the scariest movies ever made. Do me a favor though; don't bring your kids with you.

Don't even get me started on the cell phones and crying babies!

Next post: SHOPPING FOR NIHILISTS: What's the perfect gift for the man who is nothing?