*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: hall
Plan modified: Tue Feb 22 02:07:16 2000

				2/22/00

Ok, I've debated quite a bit with myself as to whether or not I should write this, but at this point I feel I need to because I've been looking at posts on various forums and some things are just getting out of hand.

First of all, there is no "engine war." I certainly don't feel like I'm in some war, I feel like I'm just trying to answer interview questions as best as possible and as a separate task I'm trying to communicate information on LithTech and what we are doing with it. That's it. Nothing about this is personal. I have been very careful to pay attention to everything that I say (and I assure you that I can back up everything I say with regard to this topic), and I have kept everything I do in this regard completely above board. By that I mean, when it comes to a discussion about LithTech and its competitors, I only discuss 2 things, Technology and Service. 

Everything I say on this topic revolves around these 2 items. I discuss our service. I discuss other technology providers service in relation to our service. I discuss our technology. I discuss other technology providers tech in relation to our tech.

I expected the same sort of approach from any of our competitors - and certainly that has happened. That's great, I have no problem with that. It is useful. What I did not expect was for a particular competitor to start to personally attack me and call me a "liar" and "a manipulator" and that I "slither" and how I'm "slippery" - the list goes on. To me that stuff is just way out of bounds and I can't really compete with that kind of approach.

Anyhow, the conclusion that I draw from this turn of events is that the aggressive nature of my approach has some people feeling "backed in" to a corner where their conversation has digressed into a mild character assassination of me, and I feel that now would be a good time to just step out of this whole debacle, as I don't have the time or will to defend against this stuff.

So, I apologize to this company for whatever it is/was that I have done to make them feel the need to proceed in this manner. I certainly did not intend to create such hostility. I feel that I have always kept the discussion to the relevant topics, and I feel that I've made valid and provable arguments that potential licensees can be the judge and jury on.

Everyone can rest assured that I will be spending EXTRA time tying to make sure that whatever further information we release is carefully screened for any potentially inflammatory comments. I thought we were already doing this, but some companies feel that I am specifically focused on them. I'm not.

I will do better in the future to remove any potentially perceived "slams" from my comments, but some companies have got to understand that everything that comes out of my mouth is not about them. If they can get past that, then there should just be smooth sailing from here.

Again I apologize to them, and more so to the gamers out there. I can certainly see from the outside as to what all this looks like. Our industry is more grown up than this, so I'm stepping out of this "engine war". I'm ashamed that people may associate me with all this crazy behavior - and further, I know that there is nothing that I can really do to stop the continuation of a company's slanderous remarks about me personally, but I hope that they can at least see that I'm not going to participate.

Thank you for your patience.
_______
Oh, BTW - this is a little off topic, but I just love saying it because it's true: COOL ANNOUNCEMENTS COMING SOON!;)