
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: hall
Plan modified: Tue Nov 07 13:46:47 2000

				
									
					11/7/2000

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO BILLY "WICKED" WILSON AT VOODOOEXTREME!!!

Much love from myself and Monolith to you man! Thanks for all the love and support, you 27 year old bastard... 

Hope you have a great b-day! I told Apache to send me the invoice for those birthday sheep he got for you. It will be my treat! ENJOY! ;)

Seriously though, we are all fans of your site and want you to know that you have built something special there and appreciate your (and your team's) hard work.

Have a happy birthday.

-Jace


				
					11/1/2000


The new LithTech website is up.

More information/webpage tweaks/modifications will be done to it, but if you want to get the gist of the page check it out at:

<A HREF=http://www.lithtech.com target=_top>http://www.lithtech.com</A>



				
					10/11/2000

At approximately 8:30 pm on October 10, 2000 (yesterday) something horribly painful happened to me, and I'm not in the best of moods...Here is the scoop:


...So I'm at Gold's Gym doing some fairly straightforward free weight flat bench press with 315 pounds and suddenly I feel my left pectoral muscle start to tear itself off of my bone structure (the area where the pec connects to the upper left arm - up above your armpit underneath some of your front shoulder meat).

As the bar moved downward during the press and stretched my pecs wide I could literally feel the fibers and whatnot stretching and snapping underneath my skin on the left side. The process happened so suddenly that I didn't see it coming. One second the weight was moving just fine and I felt completely in control and confident, the next second, I feel the equivalent of a cable or a rope starting to stretch, fray and unravel due to great tension on my left pec and then the realization that I have 315 pounds pinning me to the bench, just resting on my ribcage.

So, there you have it - the "King of Teh MONSTARS" will be unable to hit the gym and work out his upper body for a while. This really sucks because I had been maintaining my body weight around 250 - 255 for quite some time and was getting ready to make my big push to 275, but now there is no way that is going to happen any time soon... The failed goal... :(

That is the part that sucks about working out - you have to maintain all the muscle that you've worked so hard to put on! Now that I can't work out for a while (at least my upper body), I get to watch all that effort go down the tubes...

Truly disappointing... for me anyway...

Well, at least I have the pleasant memory of feeling my bodily tissues tear, stretch, snap, and fray. That's at least worth something from a story telling standpoint. :/

On a different note - 
If everything continues along smoothly, NOLF may be going gold this week... We will see.


				

