
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: zor
Plan modified: Sun Oct 18 19:45:35 1998

-- October 18th, 1988
-7:07pm CST

-Really Important Stuff-
Bwahaha.. what a good weekend for Chicago Sports teams against Dallas.
First the Blackhawks beat the fricken Stars on Saturday night, and
then to top it off.. my lowly Bears beat the hated Cowboys. Oh happy day!

-Sin-

I've been working on a few large DM maps (among other duties) that have turned out quite nicely.
It's been a nice little break making DM as opposed to single player maps..

Deathmatch maps are about the closest thing you can be to completely free form
as you can get.. Just pick a texture set.. Make up an architectual style.. maybe
map out a bit of the flow.. and away you go.  No worrying about all the single player
trappings.. things like monsters, diffuculty, large amounts of scripts (I tend to put
the least amount of non item entities I can (less network traffic).), etc...

As for the rest of the game.. Oh baby! Things are looking sooo good right now. I totally
beleive that Ritual has the best collection of Level Designers in da world (Not to leave
out our kick ass artists and programmers).  Lots off good stuff is coming.  I wish 
I could share.. but don't worry, you don't have to wait too long. ;)  

-Heavy Metal FAKK2-
Not much I'm allowed to say except.. yummy yummy goodness :)

-Ground Zero-
If you don't know, I was a level designer for Rogue Entertainments "Ground Zero"
add-on pack for Q2.  I'm enjoying most of the reviews I've read, especialy since
everybody seems to love my Razor's Edge DM map. But I'm getting a bit sick of people
complaining that the single player levels are more of the same from the original.
Pesonally I'll take that as a complement. *knock* *knock*  Hello! This is an ADD-ON.. 
Don't expect a complete change genre.  Oh.. and feel free to pick on Robs for dying in
the intro. ;)


------------------------------

-- September 14th, 1998
-6:20pm CST
I think I'll use my first .plan here at Ritual for something vitaly
important. 
Happy Birthday to my awesome wife Meglet.  