
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: zor
Plan modified: Fri Oct 30 21:49:02 1998

-- October 20th, 1998 --
-9:34pm CST
Well as everybody knows by now.. Sin is gold.  I'm happy that I was here to see the 
culmination of what I think to be one the best products of all time.  I only wish I
could have added more than I did.  A huge congrats to everybody that had a role (big
or small) to play in the developement of Sin.  

Do all our .plan files seem the same today or what?

Best of luck to Charlie, it was great working with you even if it was only for a short
while.  I understand what a tough decision it must have been for him.. and I'm glad he
has the opportunity to work on the project he most desires.

One more round of hearty thanks to my wife Megan for putting up with me not being around
since we've gotten married and moved to Dallas.. hopefully she won't get sick of me having
a bit more time for her. :)

-- October 19th, 1998 --
-9:26pm CST
Somebody (I won't mention Jim's name), was givin me a bit of a hard time about my
"best collection of Level Designers" comment. :)
Just to clarify.. the level designers at the previous company I used to
work for (I won't mention Rogue's name). Are as good as they come in the
industry (even robs :) ).. Ritual has the same high quality.. just more of them.. hense the best 
collection tag.. :)  

Goodbye pal.. so long.. don't forget to write.. goodbye....  :)

-- October 18th, 1998--
-7:07pm CST

-Really Important Stuff-
Bwahaha.. what a good weekend for Chicago Sports teams against Dallas.
First the Blackhawks beat the fricken Stars on Saturday night, and
then to top it off.. my lowly Bears beat the hated Cowboys. Oh happy day!

-Sin-

I've been working on a few large DM maps (among other duties) that have turned out quite nicely.
It's been a nice little break making DM as opposed to single player maps..

Deathmatch maps are about the closest thing you can be to completely free form
as you can get.. Just pick a texture set.. Make up an architectual style.. maybe
map out a bit of the flow.. and away you go.  No worrying about all the single player
trappings.. things like monsters, diffuculty, large amounts of scripts (I tend to put
the least amount of non item entities I can (less network traffic).), etc...

As for the rest of the game.. Oh baby! Things are looking sooo good right now. I totally
beleive that Ritual has the best collection of Level Designers in da world (Not to leave
out our kick ass artists and programmers).  Lots off good stuff is coming.  I wish 
I could share.. but don't worry, you don't have to wait too long. ;)  

-Heavy Metal FAKK2-
Not much I'm allowed to say except.. yummy yummy goodness :)

-Ground Zero-
If you don't know, I was a level designer for Rogue Entertainments "Ground Zero"
add-on pack for Q2.  I'm enjoying most of the reviews I've read, especialy since
everybody seems to love my Razor's Edge DM map. But I'm getting a bit sick of people
complaining that the single player levels are more of the same from the original.
Pesonally I'll take that as a complement. *knock* *knock*  Hello! This is an ADD-ON.. 
Don't expect a complete change genre.  Oh.. and feel free to pick on Robs for dying in
the intro. ;)


------------------------------

-- September 14th, 1998 --
-6:20pm CST
I think I'll use my first .plan here at Ritual for something vitaly
important. 
Happy Birthday to my awesome wife Meglet.  