*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: zor
Plan modified: Thu Jun 03 17:17:51 1999

-- June 3rd, 1999 -- 
-5:05pm CST-
I had to leave the office for a few hours and received quite a few suggestions.
Thank you to everybody that has sent ideas, I don't quite have the time to reply
to everybody, so don't be offended. :) The best idea so far is from Patrick
over at Rogue,(and I'm dumb for forgeting to try this), is to use the reference
drivers. 

There are quite a few suggestions to remove the permedia 2 drivers first and install
the standard vga driver. I consider that standard practice anyways so that's not the
culprit.  I will however go through the registry to see if I missed anything left over
from the permedia 2 and the voodoo2 that where yanked out.

-1:03pm CST-
Many people have told me that I need service pack 3 because that and later support
AGP.  I have SP5 installed.  So that's not it.

-12:10pm CST-

Also just bought a Sony W900 Widescreen monitor...
So if anybody wants to come up with a fix to the problem with lower rez widscreen
mentioned in onethumb's plan that would make me very happy as well :)

-11:40pm CST-

Has anybody had this problem and found the solution?

Yesturday evening I went to my local Best Buy and purchased a Creative Labs 
3D Blaster Riva TNT2 Ultra for my home computer. I happily ripped out the
aging FireGL 1000 pro (a card that has served me very well) and plopped the
new bad boy into the Supermicro SUPER P6DBE PCB REV 1.xx motherboard.  The rest of the
instilation was quick and easy for 98 but I get strangeness in NT.

When I boot up it asks me to change the display settings because they are
"not valid".  So I change the display settings and test them (they appear just 
fine).  But when I hit apply or OK then it says I need to reboot to see the
changes.  I do so and when I reboot it says I have selected invalid display
settings.

I updated the bios on the motherboard and the video card but to no avail.
The only hint of what the problem may be is in one of the readmes with the
card.  It says if NT will only boot in 16 color mode then "assign IRQ to VGA
in your system bios".  I can't find anything that resembles that in my bios
what so ever.

Am I a monkey?

Or do I return this card for a different brand?

Any Creative Labs/Supermicro support people possibly listening?

zor@ritual.com