*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: zor
Plan modified: Fri Sep 10 14:44:34 1999

-- September 10th, 1999 --
Whoo! found it!  Damn you atari for making me spend so much cash looking for
those little coins!  :)

-- September 7th, 1999 --
- 5:52pm CST -
Alrighty, time to test the power of the .plan file.

As you may have seen in Tom's .plan file, there are a few of us
that have been dropping into the local arcade (about 20 yards from here),
and ploppin down lots of mulah into the Rush 2049 machines.  First of all,
god damn.  The graphics totaly blow the old rush away, and I like the physics
model much better.  I don't think I've plunked this much money into a driving
game since Hard Drivin.

Anyways,  on track 3 (Sunset something) I've seen a bit of a secret area after
I've died and lerped through the world back on the road.  It's  a pretty wide
roadway at least 2 or three lanes wide, and there's a underground fan or windmill.

I've spent entire games just looking for the entrance while everybody else raced
around.   ARGGGG!  Has anybody found the entrance?...  Anybody?... Atari?


-- August 16th, 1999 -- 
- 11:50am CST -
As you may have noticed in the 1.06 patch, that I decided to
release "Brain Pain", or spool.bsp.  This was a map that I had
fooled around with back.. well let's see, the .map file for this
bit of wackyness is dated December 4th, 1998.  It was only a few
hours to make, but I figured why not have it see the light of day.
Be forewarned, spool is probably not very internet friendly.  I
imagine it would be quite insane with more then 5 people.  

-- August 12th, 1999 --
- 10:40am CST - 
I just wanted to wish a Happy Birthday.
You can thank them for great entertainment over the years
such as Love at First Bite, Act One,The Survivors,
Zorro, the Gay Blade, Where the Boys Are,Evel Kneivel,
The Dead Don't Die, and Doc Hollywood.
I am talking ofcourse about George Hamilton who is 60 today.

whoops..

I what I meant to say happy birthday to Ritual.

You may remember them from such films as "Scourge of Armagon",
"Sin", and the chart topper, "Gladys the Groovy Mule".