
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: dussault
Plan modified: Mon Mar 15 11:20:25 1999

 
3/13/99

Just finishing up the implementation of skeletal animation 
for Lithtech 2. This will REALLY help our games have more 
models with better animation. There are several key 
advantages of skeletal animation we'll be using extensively
in our LT2 game:
 
Shared animation sets - Models with the same skeleton can 
share animation sets.  This will save the animators TONS of 
time in exporting and tweaking animations.  This also 
allows us to change the geometry of the character very 
easily without changing the animation. 
 
Memory savings - Skeletal animation itself cuts the memory 
requirements of model animation down by a factor of 2-3.  
Using shared animation sets should halve it again.  
Basically, animation memory will NOT be a problem!

Rotatable nodes at runtime - This will allow us to move 
character heads, eyes, limbs, and mouths independent of the 
animation they're playing.  One thing we might experiment 
with is a 'ragdoll' mode a model can be put into where 
their bones use realistic physics without any specific 
animation being played for infinite variety in the 
character deaths and recoils.
 
The attachment system is being reworked to allow MUCH more 
flexibility. Attachments points on models used to be 
geometry nodes in the model.  This took up lots of memory 
for the extra animation data.  Now, the 'sockets' will 
simply be a position and rotation offset from a bone in the 
model.  This means we can have MANY more attachment points 
for free and they can be repositioned inside ModelEdit very 
easily.

Other than that, LT2 is proceeding very nicely.  There are 
new optimizations in the preprocessor that help reduce the 
final poly count a LOT.

Pultzar is on DEdit now - the new DEdit is kicking butt.

We now have model exporters for these modeling packages: 
SoftImage, 3DSMAX, Lightwave, and Maya.   

The next few months are going to be heavy graphics R&D.  
I'll describe the specifics of the features we're doing 
later (doing want to speak too soon :).


 
