
Name: Brian Shubat
Email: bshubat@ravensoft.com
Description: Animator
Project: Jedi Knight2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6-10-02

Hmmm, yeah well, call me lame for not getting back to most everyone who has sent me demo material and/or résumé in consideration for employment as a 3D Animator with Raven Software but I was deathly busy working on JK2 for the last year. Had there been an extra day added to each week I still probably wouldn't have gotten back to you. Sorry about that. Now that I'm somewhat sane again and working 'more normal' hours I can do a better job with addressing job applicants. If by chance you have sent something and I have not replied, you might consider yourself rejected for various reasons not limited to nor excluding the possibility that I found your work less than sufficient.

We are currently looking to fill ONE full-time 3D Animation position with an applicant that has experience using Softimage|XSI. Applicant must know how to use Softimage|XSI and start producing with Softimage|XSI, there is no on the job training for this. Applicants who know how to use 3D Studio MAX; Maya; Lightwave; Video Strudel; Milktoast; or other such 3D packages need not apply unless they too know how to use Softimage|XSI. Softimage|XSI know how, have you, must. There is no other reason for the requirement than the fact that we are working on a project that is using Softimage|XSI exclusively. Another very, very important requirement for submission is that you must send me demo material of your work, this is virtually the only object of consideration for the position, résumé's don't show how or what you do in 3D. Please don't send me a résumé with a tagline "Demo reel available upon request". Sorry, but it's not for request, it's required for consideration of application. I don't read résumés unless the work is good. Drawing ability is a huge factor. The only educational requirement is that you have a high school diploma. Accepted applicant must move to or live in the Madison area. One last important detail, for those reluctant to contact me, the accepted applicant will not be working with me as I'll *most likely* be on another project, so don't be afraid to send your stuff! 

If you have experience using Softimage|XSI and you have already sent me demo material and I have not gotten back to you and you are still interested in employment as a 3D Animator with Raven Software then please send me an email reminder that I have your demo reel and I will re-evaluate the demo. All other potential Softimage|XSI Raven Animators: please send animation samples to:

Animation Samples
Attn: Brian Shubat
Raven Software
Three Point Place
Madison, WI 53719
