Nihilistic Software
www.nihilistic.com

User Name.........Maarten
Full Name.........Maarten Kraaijvanger
Description.......Lead Artist
Last Logon........Mon 08 Jun 1998 at 16:49 from MAARTEN

1/26/2001

Nihilistic Software Inc. is looking for a talented animator to join our small dynamic team.

Nihilistic is a small company that focuses on one solid title at a time. We believe in hiring creative, 
hard-working, dedicated and talented people and letting them do their job.  The position is a full-time 
on-site spot in the San Francisco Bay Area. We offer competitive salaries, full benefits, and profit sharing.

Our Team members are hand-picked industry veterans in the areas of art, design, and programming. 
Nihilistic members' past credits include Vampire: the Masquerade, Jedi Knight: Dark Forces 2, Dark Forces, 
Descent, Starcraft, multiple Quake Mission Packs, Requiem: Avenging Angel, Shadows of Empire (N64), 
The Phantom Menace, Star Wars: Racer (N64), Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine, Prince of Persia 3D, 
and Escape from Monkey Island.

Applicants should:
1) be willing to relocate to the Bay Area
2) be willing to work closely with a small group of people in an open environment
3) create high quality animations for characters and creatures in a character based action/adventure game 
to be released on the Xbox and Playstation 2.
5) be ready to work with designers and laying out storyboards for both pre-rendered and in game cutscenes.
6) be able to contribute to character/creature ideas and designs.
7) be ready to work hard in a fun and relaxed atmosphere

Required:
1) An insane demo tape showing off your amazing animation skills.
2) Extensive animation experience with a firm grip on both character and action animation.
3) A strong traditional art background.
4) Should be a team player and be passionate about games.

Preferred Experience:

1) Experience working with Maya.
2) Traditional or Computer animated facial animations
2) Knowledge of storyboarding and film.

If you're interested and want to show off what you can do, email
your resume, using "Animator Position" as the subject, to this 
address:

jobs@nihilistic.com

or submit your resume and demo tapes to:

Nihilistic Software 
Attn: Maarten Kraaijvanger 
371 Bel Marin Keys Blvd.  Suite 110
Novato, CA 94949

·  Submitted documents and demo Tapes will not be returned
·  Current U.S. residents are preferred. We do not currently have any 
internship positions available.
·  Nihilistic Software is an equal opportunity employer