Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.2!

Name: Brian Hook
Email: bwh@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 08/29/1997 02:21:04
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NOTICE: If you are a commercial publishing house that is quoting any      |
| part of this text in either an electronic or printed form, PLEASE         |
| contact me before reprinting any of this.  I'm willing to work with you   |
| print publications, so please don't piss me off.                          |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

August 29, 1997 (early AM)
------------------

NO, I CAN'T SEND YOU THE RIVA128 OPENGL DRIVERS!  Sorry, I got like a billion
e-mails asking me that.  Talk to NVidia or STB or Diamond or whoever about
getting the drivers.  If they're not released yet, then they're not released
and there's not much I can do about it.

Today I spent adjusting to a fucked up sleep schedule, which caused me to
show up for work at 7:45AM, nap from 6 until 9:30, then work again from 10PM
until 3AM.  And I wonder why I'm not healthy...

In the early morning hours I rearchitected a lot of the refresh interface
so that it wasn't such a kludge.  It's now a pretty clean and simple interface,
and it should be pretty stable.

The big news is that fullscreen DirectDraw modes now work, as do the DIB 
section windowed modes that use an identity palette.  A lot of weird and hard
to identify bugs went away after the rearchitecture -- goes to show that when
code gets a little too weird and screwy, that stepping back and figuring out
exactly what you're trying to do before you keep typing is probably the smart
thing to do.

I haven't done exhaustive testing of the DirectDraw or GDI stuff -- order of
operations are A.) get it working on my machine, B.) get it wor

Got an Enorex 500MHz DEC Alpha system today so that I can begin porting our
stuff over to DEC Alpha.  These DEC Alpha WinNT systems are suh-weeet!  Their
big oversight is a lack of a "Boot to VGA" startup option, but they make up 
for it in so many different ways -- no need for a boot disk, EVER, since you
can boot from CD-ROM through the BIOS ("Install Windows NT from CD-ROM" is
a boot menu option!).

The system came with a 3COM Etherlink III XL that didn't seem to work, so we
yanked it and put in a DEC 500 Ethernet card, and we were up and running very
quickly.  I then yanked out the Matrox Millenium it came with and replaced it
with a Permedia 2.  I then had to go off and install NT SP3 (since the system
came with the Evil SP2), and then I had to install Microsoft Visual C++, RISC
Edition, along with SP1 and SP2 for MSVC 5 RE.  What a pain in the ass, but
now it's purring like a happy kitten.

Hopefully tomorrow I'll get to work on the DEC Alpha port, and I imagine it
will take a day or two for it to come together, barring catastrophic problems.
By next week we should have a test level and EXE that we can ship to IHV
partners for testing.

Our porting strategy consists of the following levels:

- port to another processor of a similar type (little endian) on the same OS,
  which will eliminate processor dependencies
- port to a similar or same but on a different OS, which will eliminate OS and
  compiler dependencies
- port to another processor of a different type (big endian) on a different
  OS, which will eliminate all other dependencies hopefully

Our respective platforms for the above are:

different processor, same OS			- DEC Alpha Win32
similar processor, different OS			- Linux (Zoid is handling this I think)
different processor, different OS		- Rhapsody (John is doing this soon)
very different processor, different OS	- SGI Irix (grab an SGI MTS to do it)

I'm hoping the Linux port will just run on about every CPU out there.  Obviously
the OpenGL stuff won't run on a Linux implementation that doesn't have a decent
OpenGL available for it.

MSVC 5 SP2 is out, so go grab it if you're using MSVC 5.

We're still investigating the idea of having Rendition do a separate REF_VTE
so that V1000 users aren't left out in the cold.  The V2200 should work fine

Speaking of hardware accelerators, we finally got new drivers for the V2200 and
we got a couple of 8MB Rage Pro boards in.  We're having some issues with both
of these boards, and until they're resolved we won't be running new benchmarks.

For all you Voodoo Rush folks, we're trying to get a Rush board in here for
performance testing also.

August 26, 1997
------------------

Okay, a couple of quick things:

- Fullscreen Rendering

We're probably going to stick with DDRAW for fullscreen software rendering,
but I haven't implemented it yet so I don't know what issues will creep up,
but whatever they are we can solve them (hopefully).

- 3D Hardware

I have new drivers from Rendition for their V2200, and ATI sent me a couple
of their Rage Pro boards to test.  When I get to a stopping point I'll do
yet another round of tests, and maybe even test on the P2/266.  At this point
I'm disinclined to do much testing until we can get numbers on Quake2, since
GLQuake is not necessarily indicative of what we're doing today.

- The Epic Deal

Alright, I blew out of control and was overly abusive to the Epic guys.  One
thing I keep forgetting is that an interview involves a great deal of spin
doctoring and bias on the part of the journalist, so often times the interview
comes off massively skewed.  A plan file, on the other hand, is pure, uncut,
and unadulterated "what you have to say" -- and in this case, there's no excuse
except naivete and overzealousness on my part for blowing out of control like
that.

So my apologies to Perry, Schmalz, and Sweeney.

I guess my opinion of magazine journalists has been steadily dropping lately,
and I just need to start taking print ads with a grain of salt.  A journalist
isn't trying to get out information or the truth, they are typically trying to
get some shit stirred up -- controversy and animosity sell magazines.  And I
played into their hands beautifully, since I'm sure they made some sales of
their magazines from .plan.  Oh well, you live and learn.

This really bothers me a lot, since I think BOOT is overall a pretty cool
magazine.

- MSVC 5

Installed MSVC5 + SP1 and it seems to work.  Will mess with it some more and if
it looks stable we'll switch over completely.

ObIrrelevantShit:

The show "Oz" on HBO is fucking insane.  Janeane Garofalo is #1 on my list of
people I want to marry.

August 25, 1997
----------------