Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Brian Hook
Email: bwh@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 11/05/1997 23:20:16 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NOTICE: If you are a commercial publishing house that is quoting any      |
| part of this text in either an electronic or printed form, PLEASE         |
| contact me before reprinting any of this.  I'm willing to work with you   |
| print publications, so please don't piss me off.                          |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

November 5, 1997 (part 2)
------------------

I was made aware of the Gamecenter comments about Voodoo2.  I agree with their
sentiment -- don't trust benchmarks unless you can reproduce them yourself --
but the delivery definitely DID imply that there was a more than insubstantial
chance that 3Dfx was massaging the numbers.

My experience with 3Dfx (both as an employee and as a developer) is that they
don't pull stupid crap like that.  Unlike many other chip companies, 3Dfx has
always taken the straight and narrow approach of performance -- give everyone
as much performance and as many features as they want.  With a brute force
approach like this you don't HAVE to do lame stuff like ignore certain states
during benchmarks, or detecting the application running and figuring out that
it's a benchmark and doing weird stuff.

When the first 3D accelerators arrived on the scene, 3Dfx was the ONLY company
that came even REMOTELY close to reaching their claimed performance numbers.
They claimed around 45 mpixels/second, and I've measured their performance at
around 40 mpixels/second.  Other companies claimed 30-40 mpixels/second, but
the minute you turned on a bunch of different features they'd fall off a cliff
or, in some cases, cease working altogether.

I've never held a Voodoo2, seen a Voodoo2, or used a Voodoo2, but I'm confident
that it's going to kick ass.  Why do I believe this?  Because 3Dfx has a good
track record of delivering top notch product without relying on misleading
marketing.  3Dfx makes the BEST GAME ACCELERATOR ON THE MARKET TODAY, and I
have no reason to believe that their next product is going to suck.

That said, I'm not backing the Voodoo2 without reservation -- there is always
the CHANCE that 3Dfx screwed it up in some manner, or that they're being
overzealous in their claims, so I still need to verify their numbers
personally.  Not only that, but TIMEDEMO numbers are REAL tweaky and very
sensitive to the conditions under which they are gathered (environment
variables, cvars, etc.).

But even with that grain of salt, I'm still giving them the benefit of the
doubt since they've done nothing to earn my distrust and they've proven they
can produce a product that is dominant.  I remember when I was working at 
3Dfx in the early days, and EVERYONE said we couldn't get the performance we
were claiming -- EVERYONE said this.  "You're running this on an SGI RE, and
that's bogus" "These are movie files from a C-simulator, that's bogus" ad
nauseam.  I was too stupid and naive to be cynical at the time, so I blindly
believed that Gary Tarolli, Scott Sellers, and Jim Margeson could pull it 
off.

And they did.

Game developers, the press, venture capitalists, just about everyone involved
on the outside was skeptical of 3Dfx's performance claims.  And they had 
every right to be -- 3Dfx didn't have a track record, and other companies were
claiming similar performance, quality, and features and not delivering within
a million miles of their quoted claims.  They used lame excuses like "we quoted
peak numbers, not sustained", or "we're host limited, but our part is CAPABLE
of going this fast on an infinitely fast CPU" yadda yadda yadda.

But once the Voodoo shipped (it'll always be SST-1 to me, dammit), just about
everyone shut up.  There is nothing like an existence proof to get your 
detractors to shut the hell up.

Unfortunately, there are always those that, for some unfathomable reason, 
choose to ignore benchmarks, game developer feedback, and even their own eyes.

Why do some journalists constantly give vendors with a poor track record the
benefit of the doubt, but give other vendors with a good track record the
wary eye?  This seems like somewhat inexplicable behaviour, and I've heard
disturbing rumors as to why this type of behaviour exists, but so far I've
seen nothing to substantiate these rumors.

My point is this:

When you're the best at what you do, you deserve to have the benefit of the
doubt when it comes to the quality of your follow-up products.  Conversely,
if you've screwed it up in the past, don't expect everyone to greet your
next product with overwhelming enthusiasm.

I think Voodoo2 will rock.  I'll wait on giving a definitive report when I 
receive one and pound on it a bit, but right now 3Dfx deserves, at the very
least, the benefit of the doubt.  And if anything they don't deserve to be
tossed into the bucket of all the other hypemasters that have burned the
tongues of consumers so many times before.  I've found VERY few people who
have been disappointed after buying a Monster3D or Righteous3D.  Unfortunately,
I've met far too many people who have felt cheated and ripped off by buying
other 3D accelerators that were overpriced, underpowered, and orphaned after
six months.

And another thing:  would 3Dfx be so stupid as to claim some performance
numbers that were bogus, then turn around and give reference boards to THE
PRESS a week later?

And no, I have no bias for 3Dfx -- remember, I quit that company, and I had a
lot of good reasons for doing so (personal and professional) -- but regardless
of my feelings, both good and bad, for 3Dfx and some of its employees, I damn
well know they have some of the best engineers in the business, and I'm 
confident (and I hope I'm not disappointed) that the original founders that
remain have enough sway internally that 3Dfx won't end up mutating into
yet another 3D accelerator company that puts more stake on hype than substance.

3Dfx's chips speak for themselves, in terms of performance, quality, and
support.  3Dfx doesn't NEED to make up bogus numbers.

However, the names "PixelFx2" and "TexelFx2" have GOT TO GO. :-)

November 5, 1997 (early AM)
------------------

On the advice of some of you folks I'm going to check out the TracePoint
profiler (http://www.tracepoint.com).  That's my first priority, since
we're in the heavy optimization phase right now of things and we need a 
good profiler to