
Name: Brian Hook
Email: bwh@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 3 Arena
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// 
// All personal musings on my part are available at:
// 
// http://www.voodooextreme.com/ask/askmenu.html
// 
// All GMB related e-mail sent to me at id software will be
// deleted unread

May 11, 1999, part 4
--------------------

I've had problems trying to get Q3TEST to work on SLI systems.  I've contacted
3Dfx about this and hope to hear back from this.

If you are using a Rendition V2200 and seeing that tearing problem, enter this
at the console: "r_swapinterval 1".  It looks like their swapinterval support
may be busted.  I have an e-mail into them on this also.

May 11, 1999, part 3
--------------------

Okay, I'm getting support mails from people that are doing some pretty damn
stupid things, including using Q3CONFIG files from the IHVTEST; editing the
Q3CONFIG file directly; copying system drivers into the Quake3 directory;
and similar types of things.

STOP IT.

When you install a set of drivers, just run the installer, and do NOT move
things around.  You're not going to get any benefit by copying 3DFXVGL into
your Quake3 directory.  What you WILL get is complete hell when newer
drivers come out and Q3TEST is still looking at the old one in the local
directory.  We do NOT load 3DFXOGL directly, we load 3DFXVGL.  If we are
loading 3DFXOGL, then you are either screwing with something you shouldn't
be, or Q3TEST is doing something very wrong.

Install the drivers, then leave them alone.

When you install Q3TEST, do NOT mess with the directory structure or the
files and expect things to continue working.  Do NOT edit the CFG files.
If you want to change a cvar, just do it in the console.

Some people are having problems because they've installed Q3TEST over
the IHVTEST, then they have the gall to send me an e-mail about it. *sigh*

If you are having problems, PLEASE do the following:

- download and run GLSETUP to make sure you have the most up to date drivers
on your system
- COMPLETELY remove Q3TEST (and the IHVTEST if you have it) from your system
and reinstall it

RUN THE GAME AND LEAVE ITS FILES ALONE.

To enable stencil buffer shadows (which are available only TNT, TNT2, and
Rage128 I think), you must be in 32-bit mode.  Then do the following at
the console:

r_stencilbits 8
vid_restart
cg_shadows 2

Do not overclock your system.  We're against it, and I don't care HOW
rock solid your system is with overclocking, if your system hangs with
Q3 when overclocked but works fine without overclocking, then it's not
a rock solid system.  This applies to your video cards and your CPU.

Finally, people are saying you can't see the difference between 16-bit
and 32-bit.  In some cases, you CAN'T see the difference.  But if you're
gonna test between the two, crank up a Voodoo2 vs. a TNT in 32-bit mode.
Look at the skies and places where lots of things are blending on top
of each other.  Also look for places that have a single, steep color
gradient.  Foggy areas are a good place, as are skies.

May 11, 1999, part 2
--------------------

I don't know how Tom of Tom's Hardware got his benchmark scores, but I sent 
him an e-mail asking him.  I'll post when I find something out.

May 11, 1999
------------

Turns out that TIMEREFRESH and TIMEDEMO do not work in the build that got
released due to a bug on our part.  We will have this fixed in the next
major release, but may be a while (please don't bombard us with e-mail
about the next release...or at least if you do, send 'em to Graeme :-) ).

I'll try to have benchmark figures up on Thursday night.

May 10, 1999, part two
------------

I've had repeated e-mails about the state of 3Dfx's drivers under NT, so
I went ahead and asked what their official stance was.  The best I could
get from them was along the lines of "We're gonna support it, but we're
not committing to a specific date".  I'm under the impression that the
drivers for WinNT aren't that far off.  I don't have any more information
on this, so please don't send me questions about their drivers.  I suggest
you contact 3Dfx directly if you have more questions about their driver
situation.

May 10, 1999
------------

Some folks have written asking what the deal is with 3Dfx support under
WinNT.  To be honest, I don't know, and that's something that should be
taken up with 3Dfx (I'll ask 'em anyway).  One thing we've run into is
that the 3Dfx WinNT drivers haven't worked too well with any of our newer
Intergraph workstations (TDZ2000 and GT1).  I haven't tested the 3Dfx
drivers very well simply because I can't get my V2 to work in my GT1
(likely the result of the PCI bridge architecture in the GT1).  I do have
a V2 in my other test machine, but there is a huge amount of difference
between the exercise a hardware/driver combo sees when installed in a 
primary development machine vs. a testing machine.

So that's the deal in a nutshell: we haven't had much luck with V2 under
WinNT during the development of Q3A, and we haven't tested with Banshee
or V3 at all under WinNT.

May 9, 1999
-----------

There seems to be some confusion about the difference between an OpenGL
ICD, a "minidriver" a.k.a. MiniGL, and a "standalone" driver.  So in my
quest to make everyone in the world less confused about matters OpenGL,
I'll do my bit.

Snarfle gri moor landi ganillish.

Okay, I needed everyone to be confused first, thus the above.  So anyone
who wasn't confused better be confused now, at least temporarily.

Okay, you can stop being confused.

Oh...uh, wait, I was saying something.  Oh yeah.

OpenGL drivers.

So here's the deal.  OpenGL is not tied directly to any particular windowing
system such as Win32 or X or anything like that.  Each operating/window system
provides what are known as "window system bindings" that act as the system
dependent interface between an OpenGL application and the underlying window
system.

Under X, for example, the bindings are part of a library called GLX, developed
by SGI and/or the OpenGL ARB (I think).  Under Win32, the bindings were
developed by Microsoft, and are called WGL (pronounced "wiggle") for obvious
reasons.

These bindings control things like tying an OpenGL application to a specific
window, swapping buffers, and finding "pixelformats".  In an OpenGL code
the "core" OpenGL code is completely portable, but the window system code
(i.e. GLX/WGL stuff) is not.  That small system specific kernel is what
gets ported between platforms (e.g. from Mac to Linux to PC).

Now, under each operating system you have various "driver interfaces" that
an OpenGL driver adheres to in order to communicate with the OS and 
window system efficiently.  Under Win32 there have been two different
prevalent driver interfaces: the ICD (Installable Client Driver) and the
MCD (Mini Client Driver).  The latter is dead, but the former still lives
on.

When an OpenGL driver for Windows is said to be "an ICD", that means it 
adheres to the Microsoft ICD interface mechanism.  Which means that
an application that links directly to OPENGL32.LIB and uses OPENGL32.DLL
and WGL will magically work with that driver with no muss and no fuss.

A "full ICD" is just that -- a complete OpenGL driver implementation that
supports all of OpenGL and that works with the standard driver interface
mechanism.  A "full ICD" is the best type of driver we can hope for from
a vendor.

But, there's a problem: WGL was designed LONG before 3D graphics accelerators
were prevalent, and WGL definitely was not designed to take into account
3D-only accelerators such as Voodoo 2.  This means that 3Dfx can NOT write
an ICD (note: ICD meaning "an OpenGL driver that uses the Microsoft ICD
mechanism") for the Voodoo 2 since the WGL bindings only understand the
concept of a single graphics accelerator.  This rears its head as a serious
problem with systems with, say, a RivaTNT and a V2.  If both accelerators
had an ICD, which one will an application use?!  Fortunately (or not),
this isn't a problem since only a single ICD can exist in a system (note:
Direct3D doesn't have this problem since Microsoft cared enough about D3D to
support device enumeration.  WGL could easily be revved to support this
feature, however Microsoft, for obvious reasons, doesn't really care to
see that happen.)

3Dfx CAN write a FULL OpenGL driver for the V2, however it won't be an
offical ICD because they can't hose the system's primary display device's 
ICD.  That would be poor manners.

This puts 3Dfx in the position of having a complete OpenGL driver for 
Voodoo Graphics and Voodoo2, but that driver is NOT an ICD.  It is what
we call a "standalone driver".  A standalone driver is simply a full
OpenGL implementation that does not use the Microsoft ICD driver
interface mechanism because of technical inadequacies within WGL.

Quake3 only supports one standalone driver -- the 3Dfx Voodoo(2/Rush)
full OpenGL standalone driver.

Finally, there is the issue of a "minidriver".  A "minidriver" is a
_partial_ OpenGL implementation designed to support only those OpenGL
calls that are performed by a few key OpenGL games such as GLQuake
and Quake2.

To an application, a "minidriver" and a "standalone driver" look
the same, the difference being that a standalone driver is a FULL
OpenGL implementation (theoretically suitable for use in any
OpenGL game, applications, etc.) whereas a minidriver is a PARTIAL 
OpenGL implementation that is suitable for only a very few games and
that will likely explode gloriously if asked to do anything but the
limited subset of operations it is optimized for.

Quake3 does not knowingly or willingly support minidrivers, however
there is nothing preventing someone from writing one.  But this is
a moot issue, since to my knowledge no minidrivers exist that can
support Quake3.

SUMMARY:

OpenGL drivers can be either partial implementations ("minidrivers")
or full implementations ("compliant" or "conformant").

Win32 OpenGL drivers can support the Microsoft ICD mechanism or may
be "standalone" drivers.

Quake3 supports "complete OpenGL ICD drivers" and "3Dfx's complete
standalone driver".  3Dfx's OpenGL driver for V2 is not an ICD,
however it IS a complete/full OpenGL implementation.  It is a
standalone driver, NOT a minidriver.

I hope that clears things up.  I have a creepy feeling that the above
makes sense if you already knew it all, but if you didn't already know
it, then you're still probably confused.  Either way, I tried.

Later.

May 7, 1999, part deux
----------------------

Ugh, the e-mails have begun..."how will accelerator XYZ work with 
Q3TEST?"

Here's a quick run down of accelerators we have tested and that we
find acceptable or better for Quake3, assuming the most up to date
drivers are installed (note: up to date drivers for nearly all of
the following accelerators will be available when Q3TEST is released).

3Dfx Voodoo Graphics
3Dfx Voodoo2
3Dfx Voodoo2 SLI
3Dfx Voodoo3*
3Dfx Voodoo Rush (tested out of house, but supposedly stable)
3Dfx Voodoo Banshee
3DLabs Permedia 2 (ugly, some serious visual artifacts)
ATI Rage Pro (4MB and 8MB)
ATI Rage128*!&
Intel i740
Matrox G200 &
NVidia Riva128
NVidia RivaTNT*!&
NVidia RivaTNT2*!&
Rendition V2x00 (not very fast, but it works)
S3 Savage3 &

* high performance
! supports stencil volume shadows
& 32-bit rendering

We have not done significant testing on the following boards simply because
they were not undergoing full shipment at the time we were wrapping up
Q3TEST:

3DLabs Permedia3
Matrox G400
S3 Savage4

However we do not anticipate any problems with any of the above, since they
are newer, faster, and should be real nice.

Note that ALL of the above boards are supported through a complete OpenGL
implementation, NOT through minidrivers of any kind.  And with the 
exception of Voodoo Graphics, Voodoo 2, and Voodoo Rush, all of the above
accelerators are supported using the standard Win32 OpenGL ICD driver
interface (because of limitations in Microsoft's WGL OpenGL specification,
3D-only cards must be supported by direct loading of their DLL instead of
using the standard GDI interface).

CPUs that we have tested on and support include:

AMD K6-2
AMD K6-3
AMD K7
Intel Pentium and above

So here's the scoop: if you have a pimped out PIII/500 w/ a RivaTNT2, you're
gonna be stoked with a sweet looking game running at a very fast clip.  If
you have an $800 AMD K6-2 w/ a 4MB ATI Rage Pro, we got you hooked up too,
but it'll run slower and not look quite as good.  But you'll still be able
to play, and I'm not talking "it'll load up, be happy" -- you'll seriously
be able to PLAY the game on a $1000 machine.  Q3TEST runs fine on a first 
generation Voodoo Graphics w/ 4MB (remember those?), and it doesn't look
half bad either.

Dig this: Intel i740 boards are available at Fry's Electronics for $49.95,
which is about what a new game costs.  The Intel i740 plays the game
VERY well, albeit with 16-bit rendering and some other minor visual
artifacts.  For $59.95 there were some some white box Riva128 boards,
and those play the game at VERY high performance, but look quite a bit
worse than the i740.  For $99.95 there was the Creative Graphics Blaster
w/ RivaTNT, which has to be the best bang/buck ratio in graphics accelerators
right now.

So that's three boards under $100 that run the game extremely well, for those
of you looking to upgrade on a budget.

If you've bought your desktop machine in the past year, odds are that you
will be able to play Q3TEST once you have up to date drivers installed.

Compatibility Issues:

We have seen a lot of problems with some AMD chipsets (specifically,
ALI) and also the Intel LX chipset used with a lot of PII/333 machines.

These problems are not specific to Quake3, but are usually problems with 
the chipset drivers or design. They manifest themselves as just strange
system hangs, and it can happen regardless of the brand accelerator 
installed.

May 7, 1999
-----------

There was an internal miscommunication here that resulted in the
unintentional propagation of incorrect information (gee, how is THAT
for convoluted?!).  So I'm here to clarify.

In a nutshell, Q3TEST/Win32 WILL support 3Dfx!  There was some internal
confusion about the matter as we've been wrestling with driver stability
and distribution issues (across all chipsets, not just 3Dfx).  3Dfx,
especially Marty Franz and Rob Wheeler, have been highly responsive
to our needs when it comes to driver robustness, performance, and
availability.

So to reiterate: there will be support for 3Dfx, and I believe 3Dfx will
be posting Q3TEST compliant drivers on their Web site over the weekend
in anticipation of Q3TEST's release.

As an aside, during testing we've found that most of the OpenGL drivers
have performed quite well and have shown a remarkable amount of stability.
We are getting excellent performance on low end boards such as the Intel
i740, NVidia Riva128, Voodoo Graphics, and the ATI Rage Pro.  We're
extremely encouraged by the solidity of the OpenGL drivers we've seen,
and we're also proud that Q3TEST scales so well from low end hardware
all the way up to the biggest and baddest new accelerators such as 
TNT2 and Voodoo3.

Oh, as a second aside, I installed Red Hat 6.0 on my old test machine,
and I'm pretty impressed with it.  Some talented engineer out there should
take up 3Dfx on their job offer to work on Linux OpenGL drivers, since
Linux + OpenGL = cost effective OpenGL development workstation.
