Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Brian Hook
Email: bwh@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 3 Arena
Last Updated: 06/01/1999 21:01:46 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Final, June 1, 1999
-------------------

Egads, how rumors fly so quickly and brazenly.  And how scary that they are
often so close to the truth and yet so far. :-)

To make a long story short, I'm leaving id.

My work at id has been a pivotal and important part of my life.  I've learned
a lot about programming, team work, and dealing with being in a position of
high visibility.  Even better, I've made some really good friends.  The owners
here have given me a great opportunity to advance myself both professionally
and personally and they've rewarded me far better than expected in the process.
This is a once in a lifetime gig, and will mark one of the most significant
periods in my life.

For all these things and more I am hugely appreciative to Kevin, John, and
Adrian.  I cannot emphasize enough what kind of a privilege and learning
experience it has been working here and, specifically, working with John.  The
type of talent, genius, and hard work he has demonstrated is the kind of thing
you see once in a generation, and I feel privileged to have been able to
work with someone of his caliber.

The team here consists of some of the most talented people I have ever 
worked with, and it was one hell of a ride working with so many people that
simply will not accept anything but the best from you or them.  These
guys have done a stellar job with Quake2 and Quake3 -- which will OWN the
first person deathmatch market -- and going forward, I expect even bigger
and better things from this crew.

And of course -- the fans.  You guys and gals rock.  I may have had my
disagreements with some of you in the past, but most of all, if you're
flaming at me, it's because you care, and I'd much rather have you folks
argue with me than not give a damn.

Crap, I'm getting all teary eyed and shit, so instead of turning this into
some James Cameron acceptance speech, let me wrap up.

I will probably remain here another week or two cleaning up loose odds and
ends, getting things transfered over cleanly, and saying my goodbyes.  For 
business stuff, if you are an IHV your interim point of contact will be 
Graeme (zaphod@idsoftware.com).  I expect that I will continue to receive 
e-mail here for a bit, so I will start forwarding relevant e-mails to the 
appropriate parties.

There is no sinister reason for my departure, it's actually an age old 
story: I got an offer from another company that, quite simply, I could not
refuse.  Later this week a press release will be issued announcing my new
position, and I'm sure some of you will not be surprised when you see where
I've ended up. :-)

Signing off,

Brian Hook
