--== July 13, 2000 ==--

"But I was wrong about Deus Ex. Do you hear me?
I WAS WRONG ABOUT DEUS EX. SHUT UP, CRAIG!" - Grant Roberts

Thank You! The defense rests.



Diablo II - This game rocks.. It is so simple yet so addicting. But
what is with the new trend of limiting the save game feature in PC games?
Putting constraints on a Save Game feature that require you to play for hours
or re-do what you already accomplished when you play again is just plain 
stupid IMHO. If I want to play a game with console restraints, I'll play a
Dreamcast game.


--== June 20, 2000 ==--

Dues Ex - They took some chances by combining the best of many genres,
and IMHO man did they do it right. I haven't been this impressed with a game
this fast in quite some time (and this is only the demo, must..have...full
..game). 

I've played it two times so far, and each time did things differently and
ended up with a different experience each time. It's so good to see a game
attempt this and succeed. Congrats to Warren and the entire Deus Ex team!!!




--== May 22, 2000 ==--

Six weeks ago I sent the Wheel of Time International patches off to
GT International for testing. Good thing I didn't hold my breath. I think
at this point it is safe to assume the patches AND GT testing have been
sucked into a black hole or time void.... So, we have decided to just release
the patches and call them "beta".  I don't foresee any problems, they just haven't
had the GT seal of approval stamped on them.. So, if you have the Wheel of Time
(a non-us version) you can grab the German or "other" International patch from
the official Wheel of Time site (http://www.wheeloftime.com).  They are linked
via Glen's update (under Current Wot News).  Also, we released a new d3ddrv.dll file
that is also available from the WOT site that should give D3D users a boost in both
Image quality and framerate. (Your mileage may vary)

If you do run into any problems, please email me at clafferty@legendent.com and let
me know.  


btw - Does anyone know if they showed Metal Gear Solid 2 at E3? :)