*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: avp2team
Plan modified: Fri Jan 25 17:52:24 2002

				1/25/2002

Winter has fully set in and with the bad weather comes plenty of time to
play Aliens vs. Predator 2!  We hope you all are continuing to have as good
a time as we are playing AvP2.

Work continues on our second Aliens Vs. Predator 2 update.  We still can't
tell you what we have in-store for this update but what we can say is that you
will not be disappointed.  If all goes well you will have some new toys to
play with soon, sort of like Christmas all over again!

In addition to the second update, we are hard at work preparing to release
an updated set of Tools for Aliens vs. Predator 2.  Included with the tools
is the most complete set of documentation we have ever produced for a tools
set and from our LithTech friends, improved mesh importing.  We hope the Mod
community will find the extensive FAQs helpful and thorough and that
LithTech's Talon tool system is treating you all well. If you haven't
started maps yet, there are also a number of walk-thru examples included to
make getting started a snap! 

Check back here for more Aliens vs. Predator 2 updates...

Best wishes,

The AVP2 Team



				
					1/11/2002
Monolith would like to wish the fans of Aliens versus Predator 2 a Happy New Year. We hope you have enjoyed your holidays - and played a lot of AVP2. 

For those of you wondering whether Aliens versus Predator 2 has been put out to pasture, the answer is a definite, "NO!" The rumor that Monolith is working on another multiplayer update is true. We can't tell you what's in it, but we can give a big thanks to FOX Interactive for letting us keep nurturing our little baby. (Okay, it was their baby first, but we still love it so.) We also can't give you an exact date for when it'll be out.

As for the New Year, we have only a few wishes to share:
... may FOX Interactive never lose its passion for Aliens and Predators. We love this universe.
... may the AVP2 MP community grow and thrive. We're already seeing maps coming from the LithTech Talon system tools, which gives us great hope for the future.
... may Sierra / Vivendi / Universal see long and steady sales for our little title. There's nothing like word of mouth to keep sequels alive.
... may MP Update #2 surprise and amuse us all.

Best wishes,

The AVP2 Team