Login: goble          			Name: Brian Goble
Directory: /home/goble              	Shell: /bin/bash
Never logged in.
New mail received Thu Sep 17 17:07 1998 (PDT)
     Unread since Thu Jul  3 22:56 1997 (PDT)
Plan:
10/24/98

I just sent out a build of the Blood2 demo to the
whole team!  I am still waiting on a couple of level
tweaks from billv and one more splash screen from
gforce...but it's getting really close now.  The
second level's intro cinematic is incredible!

The zip file for the Blood2 demo is probably going
to be right around 34 Meg. Look for it early this
coming week!  :)

If you don't have Shogo or the Shogo demo, grab it
now so that you can make sure your 3D card's driver
is working properly with DirectX6.  LithTech uses
all the new 3D features in DirectX6, so a driver
update is usually required (gee, I feel like I've
typed that before)

We are learning tons from the alpha of the Shogo
patch we released!  I played in a bunch of big games
last night and it was a blast!  There were also some
server issues (hey, that's why it's an alpha :) and
I am going to have to make some tweaks to ShogoSrv.

Mike and I talked about some network code changes
we can make that will help fix a bunch of the current
issues.  I will be helping out as much as I can but
my number one priority right now is Blood2.  :)

I've seen mostly positive feedback regarding the
alpha patch's affect on Shogo single-player.  The
AI tends to kick your butt during cinematics on the
harder difficulty settings...but other than that,
I haven't heard anything too major.  If you've been
playing Shogo single-player with the alpha version
of the patch, please send us some feedback!  :)
^?^?^?10/23/98

I'm back on the late night schedule...so you know
we're in full-tilt crunch mode over here.  :)

Blood2 is looking incredible!  This game is so
bloody and gory, yet it can be so darn funny at
times too!  There is so much awesome dialog in
the game!  Not too mention max gibbage!  :)

The Blood2 demo is actually almost done.  The
hardest part has been deciding which weapons to
put in.  I really started to like some of them
and it's hard to decide what to do.  Part of me
wants to put them in the demo because they are
so awesome...and part of me thinks we shouldn't
spoil all of the fun in the full version.
Decisions Decisions...

I did lobby hard for the assault rifle because
I really like that one (I think I can hear Shade
yelling in the other building as I give out more
info without telling him) The DeathRay is just
so awesome now...is it going in the demo?  I'm
not telling.  :P

The alpha version of the Shogo patch is right on
schedule (don't you just love us :) and should 
be available tomorrow evening!  I couldn't resist
and jumped into a few of the bigger multiplayer
games (using GameSpy, which makes it sooo easy
now).  I could not really tell who had the fast
connections and who had the slow ones.  But, with
16 people playing, there wasn't a lot of time to
think about it.  :)

Mike and I just coded in some ping info into
ShogoSrv and we also send it to GameSpy now.
Stephens said he played through a bunch of the
single player levels and only encountered some
minor problems.  It's still an alpha version of
the patch, however, so I'm sure there are still
some problems.  Be sure to read the readme!
^?^?^?10/20/98

Both Shogo and Rage of Mages are in stores!
Buy a copy today! http://store.lith.com

Shogo is doing great but we're still busting
our bunz working on making it even better.
The patch is coming along well and I'm really
hoping we can have it out *before* the November
15th deadline!  Mike is adding more player
info stuff (ping times, connect time, etc.)
so I will add that to ShogoSrv soon.  My todo
list is growing, but Blood2 has priority for
me currently.  Read on...

Over the weekend, I some how volunteered
myself to lead the task of putting together
the Blood2 demo.  That's right, there will be
an awesome Blood2 demo coming your way soon!
Should be out early next week at the latest.
(once I get something into QA's hands, I'll
have a better idea--it could be sooner)

This wouldn't be so bad except that we're
also going to be putting together the gold
master CD for the full version of Blood2 this
weekend as well!  There's Blood everywhere!

Now that I've been programming on Blood2 for
a little while, I am totally blown away by 
the fact that we are putting out two AAA
game titles within a few short weeks of each
other.  The more I work with LithTech, the
more I am convinced that there's going to be
a lot more cool games using it in the future.

I've been trying to help out the tech support
guys by keeping up on the forums.  Actually,
I've gotten kind of addicted to the forums
lately.  I try to help people when I can and
I've gotten a bunch of emails saying "thanks!",
"you guys rock!", etc. etc. and I just wanted
to say that those emails mean a lot to me. We
know our products aren't perfect but we really
do try to help people and continue to improve
our games.  Your support is very much
appreciated.  We also listen to feedback from
other gamers...so don't be shy!  :)


^?^?^?10/13/98

Rage of Mages is out!  This game is incredible.
Check it out at: http://www.rageofmages.com

Then, buy a copy at: http://store.lith.com  :)

Shogo is doing pretty darn well.  We're getting
some really good reviews and there's less than a
week until it hits the stores!

I've got about a dozen items to do for the Shogo
patch that we're working on.  Most of them are
minor tweaks to the launcher and some new options
to the stand-alone server (tractor beam stuff,
run speed adjustments, etc.)

In my last plan update, I mentioned that the 
GameSpy support was in, but I forgot to give a
big "thanx!" to the GameSpy guys!  Supporting
GameSpy was actually pretty darn easy--by I did
have a few questions and they were always quick
to respond with helpful info.  Thanks again 
guys!  :)

I put in a bunch of the voice sounds into Blood2
for the four "chosen" characters.  The "taunts"
are awesome.  You can also customize the various
sound groups with your own wave files if you 
like--this made Rick *really* happy.


^?^?^?10/7/98

The Shogo demo is out!  In general, people seem
to really be enjoying it.  There are a few small
problems, of course--but we are taking care of
those issues as quickly as we can.

I've been spending most of my time on answering
questions on the Shogo forums and helping out
on Blood2.  Thanks to Stephens, I can now be
even more helpful as a member of the (elite)
Blood2 engineering team.  :)

Blood2 is really moving along now--we're in full
super-duper-extra-deluxe-twin-turbo-intercooled
crunch mode.  Wasn't I just here...oh wait, that
was Shogo.

Blood2 is really interesting because it's a LithTech
game (which is impressive in itself, that LithTech
can release a second game a month or so after the
release of it's first game) yet it has a totally
different atmosphere.  This game has actually scared
me a couple of times already.  And those spiders!
I hate spiders!  They freak me out!  But, they're
in Blood2 and I had to test some AI stuff...so I
had to "man it" and deal with the spiders.  Life
is rough sometimes.  :)

Rage of Mages will be in stores on October 12th and
Shogo hits the shelves on the 19th.  This is a
really exciting time for Monolith and I can't wait
to see how our games do!  Thanks to everyone out
there for all there support! :)  

Last week, I finished up GameSpy support for both
Shogo and Blood2.  Blood2 will ship with GameSpy
support out-of-the-box and the new stand-alone Shogo
server will be ready for downloading on Shogo's
release date.  People seem to really like the
multiplayer setup wizard in Shogo...which makes me
happy since I was a little worried about how that
would be received by other gamers.

Well, my big compile is done and I have all the new
Blood2 resourdces...gonna check out some new stuff
now...

^?^?^?10/1/98

Yes!  We are still on target for releasing
the Shogo Demo at 12:01am (west coast time)
on Friday (so basically, late Thursday night).

I just finished playing what very may well
be the final Shogo demo.  We only had to
make a few tweaks to it this week so QA will
hopefully give us the green light on Thursday
afternoon.

The Shogo demo has two playable levels--one
mecha and one on-foot.  About 1/3 of the
weapons are available and there's tons of
stuff to blow up and you'll also get a taste
of how the story gets conveyed and how the
NPC interaction works.  It's really quite
awesome and Shogo never ceases to impress
me whenever I play.  I wish more of my code
was in there.  :)

The demo is 39.8 Meg and it does include
some music so you will get to hear how IMA
works (dynamic music based on what's going
on in the game).  It really is an awesome
audio addition to a game.  I think you'll
really like it.

Blood2 is also coming along really well.
I've been helping out on some programming
odds-and-ends now that we are getting closer
to completion.  GameSpy support (this goes
for Shogo too) is so very close to being
done.  I just one or two more things to
iron out.  The GameSpy guys are great and
have been really helpful.

Ok, I managed to sneak in a few vehicle
updates for those who care.  Here's a quick
summary and some links...

A local shop now has a dyno so I gave it a
spin and pumped out 287.6hp at the rear
wheels!  This equates to around 335ish hp
at the flywheel (stock is 255).  Ignition
amplifier is next.  Check out some pics
and vids at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~goble/rx7/dyno.html

I've had the micron pipe on the motorcycle
for a couple months now and I finally made
the "after" video.  I also took a couple
more pictures of my new gear.  This stuff
is now on my web site.  Check it out at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~goble/goof/index.html

Oh yeah, I updated the credits for Blood2
today and the winning "one-liners" from the
contest are a combination of "hilarious"
and "totally awesome"! :)


9/24/98

Wowzers!  The buzz on the net and the
gaming mags is that Shogo is a mega hit!
I don't disagree either. :) I am really
impressed with this game and can't wait
for it to hit the shelves!

Check out what the Quake/2 lovers had to
say about Shogo after seeing it and playing
it themselves:

http://www.planetquake.com/reviews/shogopg1.shtm
http://www.planetshogo.com/features/testify.shtm

I am almost finished with adding GameSpy
support into both Shogo and Blood2 (in the
stand-alone servers).  This is going to be
really cool and was actually fairly easy
to add.  I set things up so all of our 
future games can support GameSpy with only
a few lines of code.  :)

Starting tomorrow I am 97% on Blood2.  Yeah,
management has fallen to about 3% of my time.
but fortunately, everyone has too much work to
do to really need anything or be causing any
problems.  :)

Tobez got a new motorcycle jacket today...and
I rode in as well...so we cruised the strip a
couple times today.  The dual Micron pipes
sounded real good.  :)

Played the NeedForSpeed3 demo briefly today.
Hmmm...



9/13/98

Practically the entire company is busting bunz on
Gruntz, Blood2, and Shogo.  All of our sleep schedules
are completely screwed up and our diets have definitely
fallen below FDA standards I'm sure.

However, the games are looking and playing awesome and
that's what's important, right?  :)

I built the stand-alone server for Blood2 and now
multiplayer BloodBaths have become a nightly ritual.

Get Medieval continues to get more great reviews.
Check out the review AND interview (with yours truly)
on Gamer's Alliance:


http://www.gagames.com/news/interviews/getmedieval.html

http://www.gagames.com/games/reviews/getmedieval.html

Lastly, I just wanted to say that we all really
appreciate all the great emails we've been receiving
recently, supporting us in our efforts to put the
finishing touches on our upcoming games.  So far, no
one has had to go to the hospital--although Bouwman
is clearly losing his mind.  Thanks again for all
your support!  :)


9/10/98

No sleep and my neck is killing me.  But Shogo
is looking incredible and I'm even getting started
on some Blood2 gramming.

Gruntz is going to be done in a few days...but they
don't seem to need much from me these dayz.  :)

We released the Get Medieval demo and the editor
today.  The editor is kind of "pre-release" because
we plan on making a bigger help file and releasing
more template levels for each dungeon set.  However,
the editor is fairly easy to use--so I think we'll
be seeing some cool new GM levels very soon.  :)

There was an interesting article in this month's
PC Gamer magazine on Monolith.  Check it out if you
haven't already.

Well, not much else is going on...just been working
a ton...Shogo, then Blood2, then relax.


8/27/98

Get Medieval is out!  The game is getting great
reviews!  It's fun!  It's funny!  It's fast!  Buy
a copy today!  :)

We're in super-duper-extra-crunch mode on Shogo.
Things are really coming together.  We're feature
complete now so we're focusing on bugs, balancing,
and tweaks.

My efforts on the network interface and stand-alone
server are almost done.  I'll still help out with
playtesting and bug fixes...but I'm getting ready
to dive into Blood2 stuff in a couple of days.

The Blood2 team is working just as hard as the Shogo
team.  Basically, the whole company is working like
crazy trying to get our games out to the world.  It's
a lot of work...but it's worth it.  :)

The Gruntz team has been working incredible hours as
well and I think we've really got a unique game on
our handz.  

After Blood2, the late nights should end and I can
take a breather. (you've probably noticed that I
haven't been talking about car stuff lately...no time
right now  :|

It's really exciting that Get Medieval is out and 
doing well.  I hope you go out and buy it and have
as much fun playing GM as we had making it.  We want
to keep making great games for everyone to play!  :)

Gotta fix a ShogoSrv bug now...   :)


8/27/98

Get Medieval is out!  The game is getting great
reviews!  It's fun!  It's funny!  It's fast!  Buy
a copy today!  :)

We're in super-duper-extra-crunch mode on Shogo.
Things are really coming together.  We're feature
complete now so we're focusing on bugs, balancing,
and tweaks.

My efforts on the network interface and stand-alone
server are almost done.  I'll still help out with
playtesting and bug fixes...but I'm getting ready
to dive into Blood2 stuff in a couple of days.

The Blood2 team is working just as hard as the Shogo
team.  Basically, the whole company is working like
crazy trying to get our games out to the world.  It's
a lot of work...but it's worth it.  :)

The Gruntz team has been working incredible hours as
well and I think we've really got a unique game on
our handz.  

After Blood2, the late nights should end and I can
take a breather. (you've probably noticed that I
haven't been talking about car stuff lately...no time
right now  :|

It's really exciting that Get Medieval is out and 
doing well.  I hope you go out and buy it and have
as much fun playing GM as we had making it.  We want
to keep making great games for everyone to play!  :)

Gotta fix a ShogoSrv bug now...   :)


8/15/98

Still working on network stuff for Shogo.  The game
is so awesome.  We're shooting for having a really
good build for Monday.  I've got the stand-alone
server working and now I'm working on adding support
for DirectPlayLobby--it's almost working.  I'll be
on Portal a bunch so logon and say "hi"!  :)

We released a beta build of Gruntz to the company
yesterday.  The game just needs a little tweaking
and balancing and the remaining final sounds and it
should be done!  There was this really interesting
bug that kevin, tobez, and blong were hunting down
for a few hours.  It turned out to be a really subtle
bug relating to multiplayer out-of-syncs and timing
when starting a level.  It turned out that all they
need to do was read the WAP manual and they would
have quickly...oh wait, there is no WAP manual.  Well,
they added some really good debugging aids so if any
other out-of-syncs pop up, they should be able to find
them instantly.  :)

In less than 3 weeks, "Get Medieval" should be on
the shelves!  I can't wait!  We added a "reviews"
section to the GM site...so check out what the 
reviewers are saying (summary: fast funny fun)  :)

http://www.getmedieval.com


Well, I gotta get back to work on Shogo...wait, what's
that over the horizon...it's Blood2!  :)


7/31/98

I was over at Jace's today and I think I am the
first one to see the new Shogo movie he made.
This is probably the best movie he has ever made.
It's going out on video tape to a bunch of our
contacts in the press as well as many retailers.
It's almost 2 minutes long and it's more like the
intro to a TV show.  The whole thing is very anime.
He's been working on it day and night for the past
couple of weeks.  Way to go Jace!  :)

We're starting to play (I mean, uh, test) a lot more
shogo multiplayer these days.  I think Kevin's
test level is the current favorite--although I
noticed that Craig checked-in a new multiplayer
level recently.  I'm sure will be playing it later
this evening.

I finally caved in and got the Micron pipe for my
motorcycle.  It sounds awesome.  There's a video of
my old stock pipe (and how it sounds) on my personal
site.  I will have a video with the new pipe up over
the weekend.  I now know what Jace goes through to
make those movies--it's a major pain! (but also fun)

I'm going to be helping out on Blood2 soon!  Although
I will probably be dead from Shogo, I can't wait to
get more into Blood2!!!  Stay tuned!  :)



7/22/98

There's a review of Get Medieval up!  Check it out
at:

http://www.3dgaming.net/reviews/arcade/get_medieval/

We got an A- !  :)

Tobez is putting the pressure on me to get a pipe for
my motorcycle.  It's very tempting because he got one
for his bike and it sounds SO good.  We'll see.

Shogo networking stuff is really shaping up.  I think
Kevin is working on a new build for the company.  I 
have one more feature to add and then I will move on
to some other interface type stuff.  :)


7/20/98

The Get Medieval forum sure has been active the
past couple of days.  I guess people are working
on reviews of the game since we recently sent out
about 100 review copies.

As expected, a few people immediately complain that
the game is not 3D.  I always find that interesting
because I always judge a game, ultimately, by how
much fun it is to play.  From our perspective, it
didn't make sense to make GM a 3D game.  We won't
just make a game 3D because "3D is where it's at".
We'll only do it if it makes sense--there's lots
of tradeoffs in terms of features, viewpoint, time,
detail, speed, memory, animations, etc. that all
go into a decision like that.  Ultimately, we strive
to make a game that is really fun to play...both
for our customers (and potential customers) as well
as ourselves.  :)

I dunno, maybe I am way off base here.  Should we
just make all of our games 3D even if our gut says
that it won't be as fun in the end?  Is the game's
engine/technology the most important aspect in the
end?  Let me know what you think: goble@lith.com

Anyway, it's really cool to see a bunch of support
and people really looking forward to getting their
hands on Get Medieval.  I'm looking forward to
playing multiplayer with all of you.  :)

In the end, we do understand that we can't please
everyone all of the time.  But we really do try.  :)




7/12/98

Marketing has shifted into high gear and things are
really moving forward for our end-of-summer product
launch!  Jace and ButterBunz are doing a world tour
and apparently everything is being really well
received by the game press (of course, this info went
through the "Jason Filter").  ;)

I'll be helping out doing some programming on Shogo
and LithTech until we ship.  I'm mostly helping out
on some network interface stuff for Shogo, but I've
also been doing a little network API stuff for the
engine--which has been fun.

I'm a Seattle native and I've really noticed over the
past 4 years that the summers here have really started
to suck.  We used to have great summers up here in
the great northwest.  Now, we get two periods of great
weather, each about two weeks long--and that's it.
Maybe a few "singles" but that's about it.  I know
it's all tied to overpopulation (but isn't almost
everything "bad"?) but I will just stop there.  :)



7/4/98

I've really got my teeth into the Shogo and LithTech
net-start code now.  Things are going pretty good too.
Stephens and I just played a quick multiplayer game
after connecting flawlessly with the new code.  Life
is good.

It's hard to believe it but Lambert has actually only
given me one or two engine requests recently.  Gruntz
is really coming along.  The whole company is waiting
for the next build.  I've been playing some of the
newer levels and they are awesome.  Bo and I will be
doing 28.8 (and slower) multiplayer testing this week
to see what type of punishment the net code can take.

Well, I think I mentioned that I was working on 
updating my personal web site in a previous plan update.
I have been doing that and I put the new stuff up.
It's not even close to having everything I wanted, but
it's got some good pics and links and I will try to
update it a little more often this time.  Check it out
at:

http://users.lith.com/~goble

...and tell me what you think.  :)

Now that we've been starting to show GM to the press
and the retailers, word is getting out the this game
is hilariously fun to play.  Just as we had hoped.  :)
I think there's still a couple more beasties to name
in the contest, check it all out at:

http://www.getmedieval.com

We got a little teaser of nice weather earlier this
week, now it's back to the same old overcast and
maybe-it-will-rain-maybe-it-won't-but-you'll-never-
really-now-for-sure-because-the-weather-won't-make-
up-it's-mind.  At least my new watch should be here
soon...



6/22/98

Check out Avault's preview of Rage of Mages:

http://www.avault.com/previews/rom.asp

Shogo stuff is coming along well.  The launcher is
pretty much done except for a few small bugs.  I'm
now going to be adding some code to LithTech to spruce
up the API that the games will use to access some of
the networking functionality for joining/hosting games.

Lambert still haunts me with Wap feature requests, but
it's kind of nice because I still get to keep in touch
with Gruntz.  Bo and I will be testing 28.8 Gruntz
multiplayer this week.

I showed off Get Medieval at my parent's house
yesterday. Everyone was cracking up during the intro
movie.  The cool thing about GM is that it only takes
3 seconds to get into the game.  My cousin just picked
up the gamepad and joined my game and we were hacking
up the monsters in no time!  He didn't even ask me how
the controls work.  :)

I rode my bike into work today.  Not my motorcycle, 
my bicycle.  I basically have not done any riding
since last year's STP.  Fortunately, I live close
to lith.  :)

Well, the new intercooler is in and working flawlessly.
After some good pulls, the intake side is too hot to
touch but the output side is cool to the touch.  What
more could an engine want?  :)

Here's some pictures for those interested:

http://users.lith.com/~goble/intercooler/aspmedic.html

http://users.lith.com/~goble/intercooler/aspmedic2.html

I gotta order more goodies for the next round of mods this week.  :)

Well, I gotta bunch of programming to do now...  :)




