
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: goble
Plan modified: Tue Nov 24 16:47:08 1998

11/24/98

I just gave a build of the new Shogo demo (with
multiplayer!) to QA for testing.  There's a few
minor (t)issues and we are also still working on
a fix for the "high-ping" problem.  The new Shogo
demo has two multiplayer levels (one OF and one
MCA), includes a stand-alone server, and supports
GameSpy.  The MCA level is a good-sized one, so
get ready for some big games.  :)

While you're waiting for the new Shogo demo to
be released, be sure to buy the full version!  :)

We are also finishing up a small single-player
patch for Blood2 that contains some minor fixes,
features and optimizations.  Rumor has it that
some stores already have Blood2...so we're hoping
to have this small (but useful) patch available
very soon (possibly even on Wednesday).  Oh yeah,
this new patch also makes the game even more
bloody.  :)

With the small single-player patch basically out
of the way, we can now start on the big multiplayer
patch for Blood2.  This will greatly improve
multiplayer over the internet, just like it did for
Shogo.  We also have a few other multiplayer
surprises up our sleeves...more info soon...  :)

I played what is now (I believe) the gold version
of Gruntz over the weekend.  And, I think the Gruntz
demo is going to be available in a few weeks! 
This game is a ton of fun (it's practically two
games in one) as well as full of "Monolith-style"
humor.  Stay tuned...  :)

I leaked a few more Claw cheats to the Claw forum.
If you're a Claw fan, be sure to check em out.
There's actually only a few more left for me to
give out!

If you have created any levels for GM using the
editor, please email them to me...I'd like to get
some user created levels posted for others to
download and play.  Thanx!  :)

goble@lith.com



11/18/98

I'm back!  :)

The Shogo patch was released just a few hours after
I got back!  I know we were a couple days late, but
although this was supposed to be mainly a multi-
player patch, we ended up throwing in a bunch more
single player stuff too.  We actually ended up doing
a lot more than we originally planned--but I think
it was well worth the extra effort!  Thanks to 
everyone who provided us with feedback, bug reports,
helped us test the patch, and generally supported us
by sending positive vibes our way.  We really 
appreciate your patience as well. :)

I almost forgot about a cool Blood2 feature that is
available in both the demo and the full version.
Here's the scoop for...

Adding Custom Blood2 Sounds!!!

I set things up in Blood2 (full and demo) such that
even the non-modder can easily add a few custom sounds
for The Chosen characters.  Here's all you gotta do:

Create a folder in your Blood2 install directory
called "Custom" (full version does this for you).

Make a sub-folder under "Custom" called "Caleb" (or
"Gabriella", "Ishmael" or "Ophelia").  Note that the
demo only supports Caleb.

Under the "Caleb" folder (or "Gabriella", "Ishmael"
or "Ophelia"), you can then make one or more of the
following sub-folders:

Idle
BigGib
Pain
Kill
Death
Burning
Powerup
Spawn
Suicide
Weapon
Taunt
Jump

Each of the above folders is a sound "group". Stick as
many .WAV files as you want (any format) in one or more
of the folders.  If a folder is empty, the game will
use the regular game sounds.  If a folder has .WAV
files inside, it will randomly pick from these sounds
instead!

For the demo, you need to specify "-rez custom" on
the command-line.  You can have the demo launcher
automatically do this by adding it in the advanced
options (be sure to check the "Always specify..."
check box).

Hope that all makes sense.  Enjoy!  :)




11/12/98

I will be out of the office until Wednesday
November 18th.  They're gonna hafta release
the Shogo patch without me!  :)

The Shogo patch is looking awesome.  We did
some testing with a few external people tonight
and everyone seems to love all the new server
options and the new DM levels!  (there's 8
new ones, I think)  I think the game is running
even faster with the new tcpip driver.

We made the "short" list for the Blood2 patch
that will be available right around the time
Blood2 hits the stores.  There's a few things
we want to tweak and I think we have some
ideas for a few more speed optimizations.
After that, will be putting all the new internet
multiplayer code in for a multiplayer patch.

I played a little Gruntz multiplayer with the
Gruntz demo today.  It was a blast!  I saw
the Gruntz box art during lunch and it's coming
along really well.

Remember, if you send me an email and I don't
respond...it's not cuz I'm ignoring you, it's
cuz I'm out of the office until 11/18.  Bye! :)



11/6/98

Lot's of game news...

Blood2 has gone Gold and the game is awesome!
Everything really came together in the last few
weeks!  I finally played through the whole thing
and the story is really cool (and gory) and it
is definitely a ton of fun.

We made some great optimizations that really 
improved performance and the level designers
worked their magic with the in-game cutscenes
once again.  This game is bursting at the seams
with content...I think the CD has less than 9
meg of free space!  Now that's a lot of content!

As promised, I rebuilt the Blood2 demo using all
the new code.  Jace has been doing some tests
and the new build of the demo is WAY faster. 
Plus, it has all the new mouse tweaks that make
it "feel" better.  QA is currently pounding on
the demo...so it should be available any day now.
Stay tuned!  :)

Shogo has got some new goodies too.  The patch
is coming along well.  Mike and Stephens added
some cool new multiplayer options to LithTech
and Shogo and I recently updated the ShogoSrv and
Shogo wizards to make many of them available to
the user.  I won't explain what they all are right
now (most of them are self-explanatory) but take
a look at one of the new options dialogs:

http://users.lith.com/~goble/jpgs/options.jpg

The world/day/night/skycolor stuff that Mike added
is awesome, BTW.  :)

Gruntz is in it's very final stages and should be
going Gold on Monday!  The team has been fine-tuning
some of the puzzles and perfecting the multiplayer
gameplay.  I haven't been able to play one of the
more recent builds...but I'm looking forward to it
now that I have a little more free time.  The intro
movie is still one of the best we've ever done IMO.

As many of you know there are only a few cheat codes
in the Blood2 demo.  I think a few of them are known.
Wouldn't it be nice if there was a cheat code to skip
to the second level so you could watch the cool intro
cinematic again?  Do you think there might be a cheat
code in there to do this?  Wouldn't that be SUPER? I
think it would be SUPER.  But if there wasn't, my only
response would be: "ZUG".  As in "ZUG" (just something
I say occasionally).

Have fun... ;)




11/2/98

The full version of Blood2 could go Gold any hour
now!  We are so close!  We have made so much progress
over the past few days.  With Mike's help, we made
some significant speed improvements as well as
reduced the memory overhead.  The low and medium
detail settings will now make a much bigger/better
impact on the speed of the game--even high detail is
running a lot smoother!

It's kind of funny how some of the best improvements
and optimizations always find their way into a game
at the very last second.  The Blood2 demo is already
out there, and it doesn't have all of these great
improvements.  So, we will most likely release an
updated demo (and/or patch file) that includes all
this great new stuff.  If things go smoothly, we 
can probably have it ready a few days after the full
version officially goes gold.  :)

I just finished playing through the entire full
version of Blood2 (using cheats, of course) and the
game is absolutely incredible.  As a programmer,
you often play only a few of the levels, or even
a single test level where you test all your new
code--so you rarely get to see all the levels. But,
since we are so close to going Gold, I needed to
help verify that you can get all the way through 
the game--poor me.  :)

I think most of you already know that I hate spiders.
Yes, Blood2 made me yell a few times...there are
some really spooky levels that were getting to me
at 2am last night...the sounds and music didn't help
either.  Plus, now there's creatures in there that
are worse than the spiders!  Ack!

We're going to try to put out another *ALPHA* version
of the Shogo patch to help get more feedback. I've
been focused on Blood2 this past week, but I hear
things are still going well.  I should have more info
in a couple of days.



10/30/98

The Blood2 Demo will be released tonight at 9pm
pacific time!  Check out http://www.blood2.com
and http://www.the-chosen.com for more info!

The demo is another hefty one...weighing in at a
gory 36 Meg.  It's got 2 levels, 6 weapons, some
good baddies, and even a few cheat codes--but I'm
not telling what they are... :)

The full version of Blood2 is oh-so-close to being
done and it is looking really good...the in-game
cinematics are awesome!  Being able to play any
one of The Chosen characters is really cool too.

After Blood2 ships, I'll take a quick break and
then add all of the new Shogo multiplayer options
into the wizards.  Mike and I are hoping to add
some cool new connection features too.

Enjoy the Blood2 demo!  :)


10/24/98

I just sent out a build of the Blood2 demo to the
whole team!  I am still waiting on a couple of level
tweaks from billv and one more splash screen from
gforce...but it's getting really close now.  The
second level's intro cinematic is incredible!

The zip file for the Blood2 demo is probably going
to be right around 34 Meg. Look for it early this
coming week!  :)

If you don't have Shogo or the Shogo demo, grab it
now so that you can make sure your 3D card's driver
is working properly with DirectX6.  LithTech uses
all the new 3D features in DirectX6, so a driver
update is usually required (gee, I feel like I've
typed that before)

We are learning tons from the alpha of the Shogo
patch we released!  I played in a bunch of big games
last night and it was a blast!  There were also some
server issues (hey, that's why it's an alpha :) and
I am going to have to make some tweaks to ShogoSrv.

Mike and I talked about some network code changes
we can make that will help fix a bunch of the current
issues.  I will be helping out as much as I can but
my number one priority right now is Blood2.  :)

I've seen mostly positive feedback regarding the
alpha patch's affect on Shogo single-player.  The
AI tends to kick your butt during cinematics on the
harder difficulty settings...but other than that,
I haven't heard anything too major.  If you've been
playing Shogo single-player with the alpha version
of the patch, please send us some feedback!  :)



10/23/98

I'm back on the late night schedule...so you know
we're in full-tilt crunch mode over here.  :)

Blood2 is looking incredible!  This game is so
bloody and gory, yet it can be so darn funny at
times too!  There is so much awesome dialog in
the game!  Not too mention max gibbage!  :)

The Blood2 demo is actually almost done.  The
hardest part has been deciding which weapons to
put in.  I really started to like some of them
and it's hard to decide what to do.  Part of me
wants to put them in the demo because they are
so awesome...and part of me thinks we shouldn't
spoil all of the fun in the full version.
Decisions Decisions...

I did lobby hard for the assault rifle because
I really like that one (I think I can hear Shade
yelling in the other building as I give out more
info without telling him) The DeathRay is just
so awesome now...is it going in the demo?  I'm
not telling.  :P

The alpha version of the Shogo patch is right on
schedule (don't you just love us :) and should 
be available tomorrow evening!  I couldn't resist
and jumped into a few of the bigger multiplayer
games (using GameSpy, which makes it sooo easy
now).  I could not really tell who had the fast
connections and who had the slow ones.  But, with
16 people playing, there wasn't a lot of time to
think about it.  :)

Mike and I just coded in some ping info into
ShogoSrv and we also send it to GameSpy now.
Stephens said he played through a bunch of the
single player levels and only encountered some
minor problems.  It's still an alpha version of
the patch, however, so I'm sure there are still
some problems.  Be sure to read the readme!



10/20/98

Both Shogo and Rage of Mages are in stores!
Buy a copy today! http://store.lith.com

Shogo is doing great but we're still busting
our bunz working on making it even better.
The patch is coming along well and I'm really
hoping we can have it out *before* the November
15th deadline!  Mike is adding more player
info stuff (ping times, connect time, etc.)
so I will add that to ShogoSrv soon.  My todo
list is growing, but Blood2 has priority for
me currently.  Read on...

Over the weekend, I some how volunteered
myself to lead the task of putting together
the Blood2 demo.  That's right, there will be
an awesome Blood2 demo coming your way soon!
Should be out early next week at the latest.
(once I get something into QA's hands, I'll
have a better idea--it could be sooner)

This wouldn't be so bad except that we're
also going to be putting together the gold
master CD for the full version of Blood2 this
weekend as well!  There's Blood everywhere!

Now that I've been programming on Blood2 for
a little while, I am totally blown away by 
the fact that we are putting out two AAA
game titles within a few short weeks of each
other.  The more I work with LithTech, the
more I am convinced that there's going to be
a lot more cool games using it in the future.

I've been trying to help out the tech support
guys by keeping up on the forums.  Actually,
I've gotten kind of addicted to the forums
lately.  I try to help people when I can and
I've gotten a bunch of emails saying "thanks!",
"you guys rock!", etc. etc. and I just wanted
to say that those emails mean a lot to me. We
know our products aren't perfect but we really
do try to help people and continue to improve
our games.  Your support is very much
appreciated.  We also listen to feedback from
other gamers...so don't be shy!  :)





10/13/98

Rage of Mages is out!  This game is incredible.
Check it out at: http://www.rageofmages.com

Then, buy a copy at: http://store.lith.com  :)

Shogo is doing pretty darn well.  We're getting
some really good reviews and there's less than a
week until it hits the stores!

I've got about a dozen items to do for the Shogo
patch that we're working on.  Most of them are
minor tweaks to the launcher and some new options
to the stand-alone server (tractor beam stuff,
run speed adjustments, etc.)

In my last plan update, I mentioned that the 
GameSpy support was in, but I forgot to give a
big "thanx!" to the GameSpy guys!  Supporting
GameSpy was actually pretty darn easy--by I did
have a few questions and they were always quick
to respond with helpful info.  Thanks again 
guys!  :)

I put in a bunch of the voice sounds into Blood2
for the four "chosen" characters.  The "taunts"
are awesome.  You can also customize the various
sound groups with your own wave files if you 
like--this made Rick *really* happy.





10/7/98

The Shogo demo is out!  In general, people seem
to really be enjoying it.  There are a few small
problems, of course--but we are taking care of
those issues as quickly as we can.

I've been spending most of my time on answering
questions on the Shogo forums and helping out
on Blood2.  Thanks to Stephens, I can now be
even more helpful as a member of the (elite)
Blood2 engineering team.  :)

Blood2 is really moving along now--we're in full
super-duper-extra-deluxe-twin-turbo-intercooled
crunch mode.  Wasn't I just here...oh wait, that
was Shogo.

Blood2 is really interesting because it's a LithTech
game (which is impressive in i