Current Project: Unreal II, Technical Lead


2000.09.25

Resumes, weblinks, and mods (re: the programmer positions open on the Unreal II team) have been streaming in all weekend -- keep them coming!  Given the rate of response, I'll probably keep the process open for at least another week or two.

If you love programming mods for Unreal Tournament, and you've really wanted to break into the game industry, this could be your big chance.  If you have a solid OO programming background, we're particularly interested!  Even if you haven't programmed in UT, try it out!  We're also looking for people who can learn rapidly.


2000.09.22

Hi All!

It's been a while... so much for my regular "weekly" .plan updates.

A vacation to Europe (London, Paris, Munchen, Salzburg, and Venice) took me out of commission for a couple weeks in June.  But, hey, if you have to take a break from making games, Europe is a great place to take a break! ;)

Work on another project kept me busy for another six weeks.

It's great to be back 110% dedicated to Unreal II.

But, the biggest news comes in the form of the people leaving and joining our programmer team for Unreal II.

As you may have read by now, in July, Jess Crable left us to go work with 3D Realms on Duke Nukem Forever.

On exactly the same weekend, Ryan Ovrevik also left us to go work at a local e-company.  ...their departures were entirely coincidental -- in every sense of the word!

We wished them both well, and I settled back into the planning process -- the most ironic part of their timing was that I had *just* put the finishing touches on our Technical Project Plan -- which just had two major holes blown in it. :P

But, that's not where the irony or incredible coincidences ended... at almost exactly the same time, Chris Hargrove announced that he had given notice at 3D Realms -- in an interview, he said that he was returning to the Northern VA area, and that he was interested in staying in the game industry.

A couple of phone calls, and several weeks later, and it's official.  Chris has been working with us for a few weeks now!  Chris' arrival couldn't have been more perfectly timed -- he has already proven himself to be an incredible asset to our technical team.

And last, but not least, news for Unreal programmers looking for a chance to be part of an incredible team developing an incredible product like Unreal II:

We looking for one or two top programmers to join us.  Here's what we're looking for:
- Demonstrated UnrealScript experience (mods, mutators, weapons, special effects, custom AI, etc.) is a must.
- Interest in developing game-code: game-play scripting, AI, weapons, and everything game-play related is a must.
- Experience in the game industry is a plus, but isn't required.
- Ability to communicate effectively and work well with a team is a must.
- Experience with C++ is a plus -- but, we will probably orient the majority of the tasks (80-90%) toward UnrealScript.
- Must be willing to relocate to Northern Virginia -- about 30 miles west of Washington D.C.

If you're interested in applying for the position, send email with your resume and/or webpage with the subject "Resume: your name here" to me at mpoesch@legendent.com  (Warning: I'll immediately delete resumes that don't include the "Resume:" header -- being able to follow directions is also a requirement for the position! <g>)