Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 09/23/1998 22:02:38 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9/23/98

Warning - mini rant about to occur. If you are just interested in the Heretic II stuff, scroll down a bit.

Before I go on, I ought to point out that this has nothing to do with Raven, just some personal feelings
that I need to get out of my system.

So I was re-reading some of my older fingers, and reading some of the fingers out there, and reading some
articles on the web about game engines and stuff like that, upcoming games and the like, and I was struck
by the amount of absolute "aren't we great" comments out there. There are alot of people out there with
.plan files that seem extremely impressed with themselves and what they are doing, and they really seem to
feel the need to tell everyone. I don't know about you, but I've reached that point in my life in the games
industry where I am tired of hearing people say "Oh, we are gonna knock the player out with our coolness", or
"Oh, our AI is just soo cool...". Haven't we all heard that before ? And was it true ? More than 50% true
even ? 
Maybe it's just me, but it seems to me that this industry needs a heavy dose of humilty, with a large side
order of ego pruning. With all this "we are greater than they are" stuff going on, its no wonder that large
numbers of these trash mag web pages are springing up lambasting some of our industries more colourful 
characters and companies. Sometimes, after reading an article full of some CEO boasting about how great his
or her engine is, I can totally see where Bitch X comes from. I would imagine that some of this comes from
our industry traditionally being so young. Lots of those talented 18 year olds out there may be gods gift
to programming, but they often can't see beyond their own egos either. There's a line between "Hey, we just
implemented specular fogged glasses smears" and "Wow.. you are gonna be soooo knocked out with what we just
did !! We implemented moving clouds !! Its just SOOOOOOO coooool. I just know you can't wait" etc etc etc.
Now I realise that its cool to be excited about what you are doing, and want to share that with the world. I
also realise that often its a PR persons job to excite the buying public about an upcoming product. I suppose
I would just like to see a little more honesty and perhaps a touch more restraint in the marketing first.
Before you announce that the latest game will be "the next big thing in games', or "*the* Quake beater", or
(and I've actually seen this one) "Better than sex" (!), sit down and play it. Over the internet, with kids
and then go play the competition. Lets be a touch more balanced perhaps ?
I guess the message would be best encapsulated in "settle down guys". Let the work speak for itself. After all
you get the best message from your public when they vote with their hard earned cash. Congratulate yourselves
afterwards.
Not that I'm totally devoid of this either. I've read some of "Hey, we're cool" in my .plans too. I guess its
a bit of the pot calling the kettle black here. After all, Heretic II rocks. :) 
Enough Rant. 

Heretic II stuff.
Well Beta came and went. Not quite where we would like to be, but then we'd like to be done, so anything less
than that means more work :) Its coming along. We did some heavy internet testing today, and isolated some
client prediction problems that need addressing. Heretic II by its very nature makes client prediction hard,
since its 3rd person, and you get to see what Corvus is doing in such great detail. If the prediction is wrong,
it can sometimes be pretty jarring, at least right now. Added to that, the fact that Corvus will do different
things in different situations from the same animation, and our precognition routines are being taxed to the hilt.
Marcus Whitlock and Gil Gribb have done some sterling work on this, and there is more to come.
John Scott and I have been all over the code, everywhere and anywhere fixing physics bugs, fixing other stuff, 
making sound systems work, and generally cuddling the code and gently coaxing it to work right. In some cases,
we've just threatened it alot, and sometimes that works too.
Bob Love has been adding lots of grovvy world stuff so you can trigger, shoot, interface with, and anything else
you can think of, with the environment to your heart content. (Was that a bit of "We are great" I detect there ?)
Josh Weier and Mike Gummelt have been dealing with most of the AI issues, and implementing some nice body part
routines. Don't you just love feeling bodies come apart when you shoot them with a nice powerful weapon ?
And last but not least, our Leader Pat Lipo has been everywhere in the code, fixing everything that we break
when we add all our exciting stuff, as well as implementing some particulaly interesting special effects. Now
that WAS some self aggrandisment..:)
We've been testing deathmatch alot, and its about 100% more stable than it was a month ago. Its an interesting
experience playing deathmatch in 3rd person. Its not like you'd initially think it would be, the character
obscuring everything in sight, you get accomstomed to it real fast. Still, you the player will make up his/her
mind about that.
We are having Internet Gaming Zone support in Heretic II, as well as GameSpy support too.
Its confirmed that we are going to be adding custom skin support as a later patch, as reported before. That doesn't
stop you making your own skins to replace those in the game (there will be 16 skins currently), just that everyone
you play won't have them.
We will be supporting Co-op play, but we are still undecided as to team play in deathmatch. It all depends on what
happens in the next few weeks, and how easy the Co-op stuff goes in. If we don't get it in for release, then 
dependant on consumer demand, it'll come in a patch too.
Thanks to the guys at Creative for responding when I asked for some Riva Cards.. nice to know we are read by those
with the power to send out free stuff :)

This weekend is the annual Raven Paintball fire fight. Rick Johnson, the Heretic II team has your number. :)

Track of the week - Belfast - Orbital. Josh Weier has been feeding me these CD's all week. Great coding music,
as I've said before.
Joke of the week - Hilary and Bill Clinton visit a fun fair. While her husband is speaking to the crowd, Hilary
wanders off to the palm reading tent.
She sits down, and the old lady on the other side of the table asks for some silver. After giving her some,
Hilary gets the reading. The old lady takes her hand, and gasps.. she says "Oh my, I hope this won't come as a
shock to you, but I see that your Husband is going to die very soon !"
Hilary looks down at the table, her lips trembling, and then looks back up and asks "Will I be aquitted ?"