Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 12/09/1998 15:47:28 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12/9/98

Ok, the enhancement pack progresses. We got the downloading of maps, skins, models and sounds working
properly, and the 2.0 code for Aureal has arrived and is integrated. By the way, the demo's for the
2.0 code are extremely impressive.. I'm looking forward to hearing it in the game.
Creative has also been on the ball and is assisting in the integration of EAX SB Live! support. Thanks
to all at both companies that are pulling out the stops to help out here. I think the paying public
are going to be the winners here.

There is talk of a possible Dec Alpha version of Heretic II. If it happens at all, I will be doing it
myself, and it won't be an Activision/Raven official release. I'm not promising anything to anyone here,
just mentioning the possibility. Is there a demand out there for this I wonder ?

I would mention that we do watch the Heretic II forums, and from the comments we are seeing there, we
want it to be known that we *are* watching, and trying to implement and fix that which people are requesting.
However, there are only three of us on this now, and one of us is taking some much deserved vacation, so be
patient if we don't respond immediately.

If you are having problems with the joystick, email either myself, or Kenn Hoestraka (khoestraka@mail.ravensoft.com)
More I cannot say :) Suffice to say its worth your while.

Something else we are keen to point out is that we want to support those out there making mods for Heretic II.
Feel free to email us regarding this, if you have problems you can't seem to figure out yourself. Something
else I ought to mention is that when the enhancement comes, we WILL be releasing the player code, so you can
play with Corvus to your hearts content. It also looks increasingly like we WILL have another female player
model with the enhancement pack. There WILL be more deathmatch maps, and we've modified the deathmatch flags
so you can have blade only maps now... no flying fist if this is selected.

One thing that mod makers might bear in mind. We wrote Heretic II so the server checks the client effects DLL
of any one attempting to join a game it is hosting, and compares it to the one it has. If they aren't the same
you can't join. This is to stop cheaters from modifying their own client effects to enhance their chances. The
drawback to this is that if you make a mod, everyone has to be running the same version of the code to join a
network game. Just something to bear in mind.

Anyone know what the agenda is for GDGC this year ? We are trying to decide who to send this year. Anyone
interested in us doing a talk of some kind ? Just an idle thought, not a company decision..

Song of the Day :- Maddona's Ray of light. I kinda like this track. most of the rest of the album is crap,
but this one is interesting.

Joke of the day :-
There are three blondes stranded on an island. Suddenly a fairy appears and offers to grant each one of them
a wish. The first blonde asks to be intelligent. Instantly, she is turned into a brown haired woman and
swims off the island.

The next one asks to be even more intelligent that the previous one, so instantly she is turned into a black
haired woman. The black haired woman builds a boat and sails off the island.

The third blonde asks to become even more intelligent than the previous two. The fairy turns her into a man,
and he walks across the bridge.