Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Project 3
Last Updated: 01/08/1999 19:07:56 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1/8/99

Can't get used to that writing 1999 yet.. Weird. So, I was asked the other day about news on the
enhancement pack. So I'm writing this.
Progress is good. The female model is taking a little longer than we anticipated, but this has more
to do with christmas vacations than anything. It'll be done soon. We don't really want to release
this till it has everything in it we promised, and its been tested thoroughly, there's nothing 
worse than a bad extension to a good game.

So far we've added - 
Team Play in Deathmatch.
A modifiable Welcome message in multiplayer.
The Female model - still being worked on.
A3D 2.0 support, and boy, does this kick ass.
Creative SBLive! EAX support - which is also in the works.
Downloadable skins and maps from server to client. Note - this works the same way Quake does, the
skins have to be on the server to be downloaded, if its just on your client machine, no one will 
see it.
Player code has been moved into its own .DLL so mod makers can go mad on it.
And lots of smaller bits and pieces too numerous to mention.

We've tried to fix some of the bugs that cropped up. Obviously the joystick one has already been
addressed. We've added in Joystick Axis reversing that was taken out for the bug fix as this was
requested. We fixed lots of little things, like problems with sounds in demos and the like, as
well as some more major stuff, like the problem with saving with the camera on anything but a
straight axis. We are hot on the trail of that SZ_GETSPACE thing that crops up in COOP alot, although
we are having trouble reproducing it here.
If you are really lucky, there may be a couple of new deathmatch surprises coming your way, like
new defensive weapons - although I make no promises here. All subject to it being done in time and
approved by those that need to.

On other subjects, this bloody snow is past fun now. I just know with my luck I am heading for an
expensive prang sometime soon. Cars just love spending my money for me. On the way down to Chicago
for Christmas I fell foul to those damn state troopers. *sigh*, another quick $75. Yeah. Merry 
Christmas to you too officer.
Aside from speeding bitterness, Christmas was a merry time for all involved at our household. We
played host to all the Brits that were far from home at Christmas time. Man, I've never seen any
one drink Red Wine in a pint glass before, Mr John Scott. Very impressive.
We bid goodbye to one time Raven programmer Josh Heitzman, who is off to Seattle to pilot TIE
fighters for the Evil Empire. Don't fall victim to the Dark Side Josh ! :)

Song of the day : Gettin Jiggy wid it - Will Smith. I have no idea why I like this, I just know
I do. It rocks. Strange eh ?
Joke of the day : Q: What do you call a Roman with hair between his teeth?
A: A Gladiator.

think about it. Say it a couple of times. You'll get it.