Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Project 3
Last Updated: 01/26/1999 18:29:18 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1/26/99

Well, the beta play testing of the Enhancement pack is going on. We've already found a bunch of small
stuff cropping up, not the least of which is problems with Visual Source Safe 6. Pat just doesn't get
all the files he should we grabbing new, and since he's our principle build maker, we end up with iffy
builds half the time. Anyway, now we know this, half the problems went away as soon as we got a clean
build.

Update on whats in the EP

So far we've added - 
Team Play in Deathmatch.
A modifiable Welcome message in multiplayer.
The Female model - NO NUDE SKIN ! READ MY LIPS, or fingers as it should be.
A3D 2.0 support, and boy, does this kick ass.
Creative SBLive! EAX support - EAX is cool. Really needs to be implemented from the word go though, the
implementation is one of those things that you really need to code into your maps from the start. I did
my best here, and it sounds cool, I just wish we'd had this from the begining. Oh well. SOF will make
use of it.
Downloadable skins and maps from server to client. Note - this works the same way Quake does, the
skins have to be on the server to be downloaded, if its just on your client machine, no one will 
see it.
Player code has been moved into its own .DLL so mod makers can go mad on it.
We have an ignore feature finally, you can ignore specific people now, by name or client number.
We also have a better way of setting deathmatch flags for dedicated (or otherwise) servers. Much
more user friendly.
Speaking of the deathmatch flags, we changed some of them, and added a specific one to allow blade only
deathmatch. Not even the flying fist will be accessable in that scenario.
There is now client prediction operating on the client effects associated with the player, as well as
sounds he produces too. Kudos to Marcus for getting this to work - It was tough, but he was the man for
the job.
There are a ton of silly small things, like an armor meter, and stuff like that.
There are three other really cool things that I'm not allowed to talk about, since they are new and might
interfer with the balance of the game. Its better to not talk about them, and have the surprise, than
talk about them, and then have them yanked at the last minute, methinks.

We fixed everything we could - that SZ_GetSpace thing should be dealt with. Fingers crossed. We could never
get it to happen here anyway, but we think we found what it was. The joystick has proper support, demo
sounds are fixed, there are a hundred little things we found and fixed.

After this, I'm probably going to have an attempt at a Dec/Alpha port. I'm not promising anything here,
specially since we don't have a machine here to do it on. I'll work something out though.
The Linux Port should be ready to go pretty soon too. It will be dedicated only, and will run on the same
code base as the enhancement pack.

So who's going to GDGC this year ? I'm gonna be there for once.. and looking forward to it :)

Song of the day :- You bet your Life. Lightning Seeds. From their album DizzyHeights. Anyone know if this
lot are still playing / touring ? They ROCK !

Joke of the day :-  Two Dutch girls are cycling home along a cobbled street. One says to the other: "I
haven't come this way before".
The other says: "It's the cobbles."