Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Project 3
Last Updated: 02/09/1999 13:44:50 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2/9/99

Heretic II stuff first.
The EP is now in final QA.. we don't want any problems creeping up on us from behind over this, we want
to get this right first time, like we did with the retail release. Add to this an OEM deal we are trying
to produce at the same time, and mix in only three people on this and you have a recipe for lots of work
and yet more late nights. I know our illustrious leader Pat Lipo has been flogging his guts out over this
and us other two minions have been working pretty hard too. On the plus side though, what we've come up
with is definitely an Enhancement Pack, and almost a mission pack. 
I wont go into all the enhancements right now, since it would take too long and I wouldn't remember them
all anyway. Suffice to say, we are pretty happy with what we've accomplished, and the beta testers seem
fairly happy too. At least thats what they say :)

So, with that done, time for an editorial rant. I was reading the Magic Memories interview with Randy
"DuvalMagic" Pitchford of Rebel Boat Rockers on Adrenaline Vault, and some of the statements there caught
my eye. Not only does this guy Randy have his head screwed on right, but he makes some damn good points 
about game design. They were well founded and well thought out and I for one, can see the experience behind
them.
So, with these in mind, I was playing Rogue Squadron on my trusty N64 the other day (given to the entire
company at Christmas time from the bosses. Did I say that Raven Rocks ?), and some of these points jumped
into the fore brain since Rogue Squadron is one of those damn annoying games that manage to piss you off
soooo much, yet have so much going for them.
Lets face it, shooting down TIE's is some of the best fun you can have, especially when you are old enough
to remember the movie the first time around. But what the hell is with that Speeder harpooning the ATAT's
thing ? What is that ? Is that not the most annoying skill to have to learn ? And what is the thinking
behind sticking it in the fourth mission ? Not only do you have to play through the damn mission everytime
to learn the skill, but right after that, you have to go do it twice again.
Any game whereby I play a mission from the start 13 times, and never complete it due to this one fact you'd
better believe is going back to the store. Good thing I only rented it I think.
Anyway, it just makes me mad that such a fun game, with so much going for it, the licence and all, not to 
mention great environments, good voice acting and all the rest, gets stuck on my crap list because of one
really dumb and stupid flaw. Dumb and stupid enough to stop me from wanting to play it.
Randy's point about "The difficulty of a new skill challenge should be inversely proportional to the
penalty for failure. A good game does not kill the player the first time they have to try a common skill,
like a long jump, in the game." is spot on. You listening Lucas Arts ?

On another side, I rented South Park for the N64. I'm not sure who the audience is for this. Ok, its
a bit fun to hear Cartman going "kick ass" etc, but still, a 1st person shooter based around this ? I'm
confused. Aren't there enough first person shooters around right now ? The premise of a South Park one
must be lost on me. Yes, its fun hearing the sound samples and the little cinematics, but a) if I wanted
to see cinematics I'd watch the show and b) given the N64's particular limitations, you aren't going to
get that many sound samples to hear.. I played it once, said "cute", went back to Quake II, and that was
that.

Rant over I guess.