Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 04/15/1999 11:11:32 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4/15/99

Wow, a month since my last update. Yikes.
Well, its tax time again. Bill dips his hands in my pockets once again. Ohh err... sounds a bit naughty that !
I dunno, whatever I hand over the government cash wise, it never seems enough. Whinge Whinge, moan moan.

GDC - I didn't do a mini review of that. So here goes. Most of it was pretty cool. The keynote by Shigeru Miyamoto
was cool, to be honest, I don't think he said anything that most in the industry with any experience didn't already
know, but it was majorly cool for him to be there. I particularly liked the bit where he went on about developing
zelda "We had a team doing r & d on the camera, another team doing animations, another doing this and another doing
that." That must be nice eh ? :))
Most of the seminars were pretty cool. Some where not. The panel with the level designers hosted by Romero was pretty
much a bust. Was it just me or did it seem like people were constantly getting up and leaving ?? I enjoyed the one on
why the internet sucks by the guys who did X wing vs Tie Figther. Again, mostly old news, but interesting to hear the
stumbling blocks they hit and some of the reasons why these blocks exist. Also, the stuff on scalability that Sax's
did using his messiah engine was damn cool. That game looks like its going to rock hard. And that Sax's guy knows his
stuff alright. Way cool.
So, the parties. I think everyone would agree that for all the fuss surrounding the microsoft party, it was crap. Who's
idea was the two drinks free then pay ??? Firstly, there were lines everywhere so you had to wait for 1/2 hour to get a
beer, and secondly, once you'd had the two drinks, to buy a beer was $4.. what is the thinking there ? Its not like the
band was that good. It seemed from where I was standing that everyone came, had their two drinks, and then vanished.
Now, SoftImage knows how to give a party. Congrats to that lot for holding the party of the week as far as I'm concerned :)
Then again, I'm biased, I won a compaq Palmtop PC there :) Cheers Gareth and the group for that :)
All in all the GDC was for me a good experience. I'm not thrilled with Sony's level of secrecy over the PSX2, though. I
was talking with one producer that works for Sony that told me that his whole team went to Japan to be briefed on the PSX2, 
and when they got back, they couldn't tell him what they had learned ! Not only that, he didn't even KNOW they had gone
to Japan till they all got back. He told me he thought it was strange that they all called in sick for a week at the same
time. Secrecy gone mad ???

So the EP is out there. And it has a couple of bugs in it. This highlights our blind spot of real Internet testing. QA at
activision didn't catch a couple of bugs, but then we are lucky we got any QA time at all, since they had their hands full
of Civ 2 and a golf game. I just want to say thank you to them for putting in the time they did. Anyway, we ARE going to
fix the bugs that cropped up. Infact, they are fixed, and QA is once again doing their thing on the code. Its just a question
of time before we release this fix. When its released, I'll do a .plan update listing what we fixed and why.

Before I sign off, I have to say hello to JF, Jan and the rest of the guys from NAD in Montreal for making the GDC a fun
time. I just want to say that Jan, you have a sick sense of humour :)

Song of the day :- Divinyls - I touch myself. Song for a generation :)
Joke of the day :- 
Q. Whats the politically correct term for a Lesbian ?
A. A Vagiterian.