Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 06/10/1999 10:45:38 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6/10/99

I normally don't do this, two updates a day apart, but I felt the need to clarify something.
Yesterday I said some bad things about Descent Freespace. Well, I stand by my comment that the game crashing bug
was a bloody stupid thing to allow through QA, BUT, I did give it another chance when I took the disks home last
night. And I'm glad I did. This is the kind of game that makes me feel like I was born 300 years too early. I spent
6 hours playing it last night, having a whale of a time blasting the crap out of nasty aliens, much the dis-pleasure
of my wife.
Good Job Violition.

By the way, message to the news guys ? Can we stop this habit of publishing Carmacks work log on the news pages ?
I realise he's cool, and working on the 'game of the moment', but if I want to read it, I'll go and look. Lets face
it, it means diddly to most people out there..

6/9/99
Out on the Raz last night at a local bar, and now my head hurts. Why do I do this to myself on a week night ?
I mean, going out and getting blasted is a good and healthy thing to do, just on a week night ? What was I thinking ?
An old friend once said to me "Every now and then, you need to go out and get really f***ed up, just so you know
why you shouldn't". Wise words indeed.

Enough of my HangOver though. Although it does deserve capital letters.
It appears I am helping out SOF for a week or two. This is cool, since the game is really coming together. Graphically
it is very rich, and there are one or two technical advances that I wouldn't have thought possible in the Quake II
engine. There's life in the old banger yet :)

I spent the last couple of weeks doing research on LOD for Trek. Whether or not the technology I came up with goes in
or not remains to be seen. Its an interesting conumdrum though. The secret is to Pre-process everything. Just like
everything else we do, pre-process is king :)

While researching LOD, I came across a polygon reduction tool called "rational reducer". Does anyone else out there
in video game land use this tool ? If you do, drop me a line, I'd love to chat with you about it...

Project 3 is slowly solidifying. I can't say anything about it yet, suffice to say that its going to be different,
thats for sure.

As an Amendment ;-
Our server was down today, while we changed ISP's. So I thought, great ! Time to play. I recently took delivery of
a Logitech Wingman Force feedback joystick, and it came with a bundled copy of Descent Freespace. So I thought, even
cooler !! I love space sim type stuff. I was weaned on Elite, and played Wing Commander to death. I thought, ok, while
the Server is down, I'll play this. And cool it is indeed. However, after I had to shut my system down over this ISP
business, Freespace won't boot again. It goes through the into movie, asks me to select my pilot, and then sits there,
looping sounds, with a black screen. Well. Or to borrow a Ken H. phrase.. WTF??? I don't know what anyone else says
but I have to say this is a pretty piss poor bit of QAing on Interplays part. I'm afraid this kind of bug is going to
relegate the FreeSpace disks to the back of the CD rack, no matter how good the game is. If I can't get to it, then
whats the point ?

Time to wait for Babylon 5, and Homeworld methinks.

Music of the day ;- Northern Exposure. I've no idea who this lot are, except that its great code music. I borrowed
the disc from the local Juke Box of Josh Weier :)

Joke of the day :-
Q: What do you get if you cross a nun with a computer?
A: A system that won't go down.