Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 06/17/1999 10:03:34 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6/17/99

Arrrrrrgggggghh ! Sarcasm from Blue ! Is there anyone I *can't* offend out there ??

6/16/99

I'm updating my finger so I can stop the hate mail coming in. Most people simply didn't seem to grasp my earlier comments
about asking the news people to refrain from publishing peoples work logs.. Let me clarify. I think work logs are great.
It clues people on over what programmers and designers and so on are doing. Lets face it, its not up to me to make any
statments about what should or should not go in anyones .plan file. My point was, lets not report every detail of this
work log as news on a news update page. Whether or not a new CVAR has been placed in Quake 3 is really not news, unless
you happen to be a licensor of Q3. Evil Avatar has the best approach I think, he remarks that the .plan has been updated,
and talks about only those things within it that affect games players.. like removing bouncing or whatever. I hope we can
lay this to rest now. I hate getting hate mail, particularly from those that don't understand my point.

On to other matters. I was interviewed recently, on the new game development website. If you want to check it out its
GameDev.net

So it looks like the LOD stuff I looked into may not be going into Star Trek. The reasoning here involved low poly count
models. Traditionally, Raven has been extremely good at producing attractive low poly count models. This has come after
years of experience that our modeler have had, plus large amounts of beatings until they get it right :) However, one of
the things that LOD is traditionally NOT good at is reducing low poly count models even further and making them look ok.
Yes, it is understood that they are reduced in size, so you don't notice this so much, but still, there comes a quality
issue and at some point, modelers and designers need to say "enough". Really and truly, to do LOD so it looks correct, you
should be building high poly count models to begin with. Since we already have a decent amount of work done on the models
and animation for Voyager, there comes a point where the amount of time to redo it all is not balanced by rebuilding
everything and pushing our delivery date back. We are still investigating the whole dynamic LOD approach, and are still
undecided on its final form for Star Trek right now. As my father would have said, if we have the time to invest in code
experiementation in an ongoing project, then we'll suck it and see.:)

I'm doing some eye candy for SOF right now. Its really cool to be free enough to have the time to experiement with fluff
stuff to try and get it right. Since I'm a free resource right now, they are applying me to stuff that otherwise may not
have been so addressed. It looks like I'll have my hands in the effect scaling code too, which is fine by me :) Nathan
Albury has added a very cool Special Effects generating tool into the game code base, something we've all been talking
about for while. This takes effect generation out of the coders hands, (thankfully, since it takes longer for a coder to
do it than an artist) and places it in the designer hands. I know I'm happy about this :) Doesn't stop me making effects
but it sure does allow everyone a fair crack at it now :)

The guys at Creative are adding EAX 2.0 to our sound system base, something else thats a bit exciting :)

Nvidia. Hmm, did anyone else attend the Nvidia Spring Break thing back at GDC and actually receive a TNT2 yet ? We got our
hands on one at E3, for two days, and then found that there were some bugs with our OpenGL code. It would have been nice to
have actually been able to have played with this a few days before hand...

Logitech. Others have issued proclamations about how good these guys are at getting development stuff to them. And we echo
that sentiment whole heartedly. Except for the Quick cams :) Otherwise, these guys ROCK. And so does that force feed back 
Mouse thing.

WereWolf. Wow. I saw this at E3 - I don't think I was supposed to, just was at the right place at the right time - and its 
a definite WOW. The three different states you can be in rock. The guy as a werewolf reminds me of the wolf Character in
Rares Arcade Masterpiece Killer Instinct. Same sort of style. And I love the spells you weave. Very cool stuff.

Music of the day - I decided to knock this on the head after being repeatedly berated for this in all the hate mail :)

Joke of the Day - no one had any complaints about this, so I'll continue doing it.
One Friday morning, a teacher came up with a novel way to motivate her class. She told them that she would
read a quote and the first student to correctly identify who said it would receive the rest of the day off.
She started with, "This was England's finest hour."
Little Suzy instantly jumped up and said, "Winston Churchill."
"Congratulations," said the teacher, "you may go home."
The teacher then said, "Ask not what your country can do for you."
Before she could finish this quote, another young lady belts out, "John F. Kennedy".
"Very good" says the teacher, "you may go".
Irritated that he had missed two golden opportunities, Little Johnny said, "I wish those girls would just shut
up."
Upon overhearing this comment, the outraged teacher demanded to know who said it.
Johnny instantly rose to his feet and said, "Bill Clinton. I'll see you Monday".