Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 09/14/1999 13:58:30 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9/14/99

Finger update time again. Not that I've got anything really constructive to say, but what the hell.
Firstly, thank you Creative for getting on the ball and sending us some goodies. Always appreciated.

Secondly, SOF is coming along great guns. I'm busy dealing with the sound system issues and also trying
to get Force Feedback working correctly. The microsoft Force Feedback system is a tad easier to actually
use, since all the effects are kept in ROM on the joystick itself, its just a call, and wham, there it 
goes. The Logitech system is a bit more complicated, since you have to create the effect yourself, with
attack/decay/sustain/release stuff like we used to have back on the old C64. Its more complicated yes, but
its infinitely more flexible than the microsoft stuff, since thats limited to whats in the ROM. If we do 
this right, and I'm hoping we can, then we will actually have an editable file so you can create your
own feed back effects, assuming that you have a logitech joystick. Thats the plan anyway, and its all
subject to change of course.
Oh, and we are doing our best to support the Force Feed back Mouse too. The drivers right now are a bit
iffy, but we are working with Immersion, the guys responsible for these, to get them right.

Star Trek is coming along well too. There is much discussion right now about whether we use the new
skeletal animation system that Carmack is developing, and what this would do to our timelines if we did.
While there is an argument for using it, the amount of re-development time it would take us to rebuild
and animate our models is in question. The guys at Id can afford to do it easily since they only have about
40-50 frames per guy to deal with. We start at 200 and go up from there. You can see the problem of balance.
Its basically memory vs re-development time. I'm just glad James Monroe makes that call. :)

I want to make some comments regarding the recent Homeworld and Star Fleet command Demo's. Firstly, the guys
at Sierra suck. Why ? Cos I'm playing, and having an absolute blast, and the bloody demo ENDS!!! You GITS!!!
I was getting seriously stuck in there, having a good time, and it just STOPS?? WTF?? I know its a demo, but
I WAS HAVING A GOOD TIME AND IT ENDED. and I wasn't happy about it. I can see this one getting bought the
moment it hits the shelves. I feel another Dungeon Keeper coming on here, that was another game that seriously
threatened my marriage.

Actually, a quick aside, and a story. I used to work for a project manager named Paul Jacobs back in England, 
when I developed for Firebird Software, when it was still owned by BT (Showing my age here). Anyway I remember
him telling me a story about a time when he was called up as an expert witness for a court case where a wife
was suing her husband for divorce over him playing Elite all day instead of attending her. He was called to
testify that video games were addiciting, and it wasn't his fault. Kinda made me chuckle.

Ok, Star Fleet command. Its visually impressive. The control isn't as intuitive as I would have liked, and
the demo all appeared to be on one plane, rather than true 3D. Also, I found my photon torpedoes zipping
through the target instead of hitting it, which was frustrating, and the weapon recharge times also felt a
touch too long. However, I did find my self desperately *wanting* to like this. I think I'm gonna buy this
anyway, since it is so cool though. I've watched others having a blast with this, so I think I'm gonna have
to invest some more time in this one.

And here's a request I don't expect to get granted. The models from StarFleet Command kick ass. There's no
doubt about it. Now, I'm working on this OpenGL screen saver thing, and I need some low poly count Star Trek
models... and I was just kinda wondering if there was any chance I could persuade anyone at Interplay to send
me one or two?? Just for kicks. Nothing to do with my professional life, just something I'm doing on my own.

We'll see what happens.

Tip of the day.
X-Files fans. Create the effect of being abducted by aliens by drinking two bottles of vodka. You'll invariably
wake up in a strange place the following morning,having had your memory mysteriously 'erased'.