Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 09/28/1999 17:10:46 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9/28/99

Well, I'm back from Las Vegas, and the SOF convention there. What an interesting event that was...
Lots of the stereotypes that you would expect to see at an event like that, but also a surprising number
of normal well adjusted people that are just interested in the whole gun scene. It actually made me re-evaluate
my stance on the whole "they are all freaks" attitude. Its an interesting world out there; I wish I got out
into it more often.

John Mullins, the ernest hero of our SOF romp was there on hand, helping out with advice and introducing us
to luminaries in the world of mercena.. sorry, consultants. John is an extraordinary man. He's the real deal,
but he acts like everyones favorite uncle. Every now and then he drops something into the conversation and 
you look at him and think "Oh wow.. this guy actually *did* these things..". As a consultant, we've certainly
got our moneys worth from him.

I was interviewed on MSNBC as well, that piece went out yesterday evening and early this morning. We are 
currently making an AVI of the piece that will be available on the JAKEWORLD website.
Also there, are some pictures of the event, and the inevitable booth babes. There was someone at this
convention even selling Lingerie. Weird eh? Stocking up in case the Y2K bug means no more new lingerie?

One of the nicest things about going to the convention was having the time to sit and just PLAY the game, rather
than play testing it, which is mostly what you do when your working on it. When you have the time to play it and
enjoy it, you notice stuff that could be done better, or stuff that really works. SOF is fun, there's no doubt
about it. Of course I am going to say that, but I try and remain at least a little objective:)

SOF is coming along really well right now. Everything seems to be slotting into place, the inevitable last 
minute fires are being put out, and stuff is settling down. We have Force Feedback working for both Microsoft
and Logitech products, we have EAX working, and are just tweaking the A3D implementation too. Everyone here is
working feverishly, and I have to say that those in command, Eric Biessmen, Rick Johnson, Joe Korberstein, Brian
Raffel and the whole crew are doing a good and tremendous job. Its a pleasure to watch them work. Perhaps I should
stop watching and join in a bit:))

Tip of the day:-
Don't buy expensive 'ribbed' condoms, just buy an ordinary one and slip a handful of frozen peas inside it before
you put it on.

If your bored, take a trip around JAKEWORLD!