Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
28/2/00

Well, Raven is in the grip of Release Candidate Tenision (tm). QA is pounding on the code pretty hard and we are fixing
the bugs as soon as we get them. That's one nice thing about having a demo out there, QA tends to shake the code tree
pretty hard for the demo release, leaving you with bugs at RC time that you've introduced since then. It narrows down
where you need to look when you come to fix them. SOF is looking very solid, so fingers crossed we don't have to submit
15 Release Candidates:)

I've been seeing a lot of people talking about their lectures for GDC this year. As it happens I asked to do a talk there
this year, but Miller Freemen were of the opinion that it wasn't required, apparently the roster was full. Oh well. So 
much for that. I was going to do it on Humor in games, what to avoid, what works, what doesn't and so on. Not something I've
ever seen covered in any depth so I thought I'd have a go. But you'll have to wait another year now. Maybe I'll just do it
as an article on LoonyGames instead.
*update* I just heard from Alan at GDC Central. He has graciously offered me access to the convention. Thanks Alan, that's a 
nice gesture:)

Actually, while I'm having a whine, I thought I'd mention that on JakeWorld I released my latest learning project. I'm having
a stab at the intricacies of MFC, so I created a screen saver thingi. It allows you to randomly select screen savers in a list
and have them fire off randomly rather than just the one that Windows allows you. You can even set them to change over time, so
you can cycle them over 20 mins or whatever. Since I just did this as a learning experience, I decided to stick it up on the 
web for free. There's even the source code there. Just go check out JakeWorld.
I did actually send this out to some of the web news page guys and the guys at 3Dfiles, but I saw no mention of it so I thought
I'd resort to some self pimpage:)


If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>