Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/3/00
Man, Americans have a really weird way of putting days. In England we do it day/month/year. Here they do it
month/day/year. Did that ever give me trouble when I first got here. A bunch of checks (and that's spelt Cheques
by the way) kept coming back cos they were dated wrong. I still can't get it right first time. 

Anyway. Back to the Mac stuff. Voyager Holomatch now works correctly on the iMac. We figured out the last virtual
machine bug, and now it's all just peachy. (Actually, we didn't strictly speaking fix the bug, we just worked around
it until I can get my hands on a good PPC assembly book. Anyone know of one?)
As it stands right now, there is still some too-ing and fro-ing going on about who is actually going to do the 
developing of the single player game. I've got the multiplayer version going mainly because we wanted to see how easy
it would be to do. Activision has final call on how it's all handled, and there are still discussions going on there.

On the SOF front, I am working with the people from Aureal to update the A3D code in SOF so it recognizes the Montego
II A3D sound card. For some reason, between beta and release we broke the detection, and we aren't sure how. Aureal
is looking at it now, and we should see it in the next patch.
While we are talking about sound stuff I should mention that we've seen some activity on the SOF forums concerning EAX
support. I feel I ought to take this opportunity to explain what happened with the last patch (1.04). Creative Labs 
sent us an EAX update because they were about to release a version of the Eagle product on the market for developers
(for the un-initiated Eagle is the sound mapping tool that we use to create map sound environments). However, it's .eal
map files that it produced weren't compatible with the version of Eagle we had used during development. Creative offered
to update our code so we could read in new .eal files and re-generate all our .eal files we used in the game. So we
took them up on the offer. However, after trying the rtPatch program we use to update our pak files, we found it barfed
on these files when operating under win98. Now this wasn't the only update Creative had applied to our codebase. They
also touched some file searching alogrithms, and the autodetection code, if memory serves. When we found that rtPatch
vomited on the .eal files, Rick removed the entire update, although I think the new detection code was still there.
Hence some of the EAX problems people are seeing. I'm pretty sure that's what's going on here. The next patch should
fix that, as soon as rtPatch gets back to us with the fixes. Rick is out this week, so it's hard to know exactly what
is going on.

On other topics, I updated Jakeworld and added the last of the three game developer articles that up til now where 
running on Loonygames. Jason has the last article, but for some obscure reason, Loonygames hasn't been updated in a
while. I'm reliably informed that when it does get updated, the article will be there too. So if you can't wait,
check out JakeWorld and go to the articles section, and if you can, wait for Loonygames (Jason does do a much better
job of presentation than I could ever do;))
For those that are interested, the last article is called Game Design Philosophy - Make 'Em play. It's just notes on
design hints, and also ways to make those hints work in a development environment.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>