Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 05/16/2000 09:48:34 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/16/00

Ahh, the nosiy magnificence that is E3 quietly fades into oblivion. Man, do I wax lyrical early in the
morning or what? :)
Anyway, some rants. Some of the post E3 (and mid E3) interviews out there vie for the the "Dumbest questions
asked" award. Lets apply some common sense to some of these. As an interviewer, what do you really expect some
one to say when you say to them "Hey, so what was audience reaction to your game?". Let's see, perhaps the 
interviewee might say "Well, they seemed pretty dissapointed I think... we thought we had a kick ass game, but
we got our asses kicked by some of the others around here. Back to the drawing board for us". Or maybe even
"Well, we just suck, there's no doubt about it.". It's hardly likely is it? No, they are going to go on and on
about how great they are, and how everyone 'loved' the game. What a dumb question. And there are a bunch more
like it.
I dunno, maybe it's just me, but it does seem that half the web interviews I see aren't planned out at all. It
looks suspiciously like these people wander round E3, and if they happen to see someone cool, they try and invent
questions on the spur of the moment. Come on guys, Be Prepared with some standby questions. Have something
interesting to ask, or just don't bother. And don't be afraid to put people on the spot. Ask 'em what they think
of the competition:) Don't just go on and on about CliffyB's wardrobe. That's been done to death, and I'm sure
Cliff is sick of it. I know I would be.
And while we are an E3 rant, have you noticed that every game there "looks amazing" ? None are just "ok".
Apparently lots of people are just taking the PR guys words verbatim these days. It kinda reminds me of looking
through personal ads (not that I do of course, I'm married. Says so right here, on my tattoo and my handcuffs.). Everyone in 
personal ads has a 'nice personality" and is 'good looking' or 'attractive'. And all our games are 'revolutionary'
or 'amazing looking' or 'have great AI' or "Are going to push the genre" etc etc etc.
Very sad when you think about it. We are worse that Hollywood for hype.

Onto the next rant.
DaiKatana. Why is *everyone* so intent of ripping both on this and John Romero himself? I played the demo, it was ok.
I don't think anyone, with the best will in the world, would call this the next half-life killer, but it's far from the
piece of crap that everyone would have you believe. The implementation is pretty sound, it's an ok game, there are a few
really nice idea's weapons wise, plus some interesting graphical effects.
Yes it was late, but it's not like that was intentional. No one goes out and says "Well, lets take 4 years to do this game".
I truely believe that John R and the rest of the team poured themselves into this game, and I think it's great that they
completed it. Creating a game from scratch and getting it all the way to the shelves is NO PICNIC, especially when you
consider the experience that most of that team had.
The demo wasn't the greatest part of the game it would seem from what we've seen. There are some strange idea's, and a couple
of wacky story telling premesies, but really, as long as the game is fun, it honestly doesn't matter.
I get the impression that there are some people who really *want* to see both this game and John fail. And that's just sad
and wrong. Ion has a bad rep right now, mainly due to the lateness of the game, and all the much publicized email articles.
Well, lets face it, there isn't a company out there that doesn't have it's share of skeletons in the closet. Most of us don't
have to deal with them all being exposed though. Ion lost out, but that doesn't automatically make the company losers.
I dunno, I don't honestly think this is that bad of a game. Just because it may not appeal directly to my taste doesn't mean
it's a bad game. I don't personally see the attraction of EverCrack myself, but hundreds of thousands of others do, so I'm
very prepared to believe it's a good game. Ultimately the people you have to impress are the punters who put down their
50 bucks that they spent a week working for at the grocery store. These are the people that need to get their money's worth.
Ultimately I say "well done" to John R, KillCreek and the rest of the team. Take a well earned rest, then appply this
experience to the next project. I look forward to it myself.

It might seem strange to have a competitor say some of this stuff, but really, I believe it's a big world out there. There
is plenty of room for us all. I don't subscribe to this whole "it is not enough that I succeed, everyone else must fail"
credo that I'm seeing so much of recently. Microsoft's philiosphy seems everywhere these days.

One last rant.
Mod community. There are a few threads on the SOF forums that I've been following. And since I'm my mothers son, I'm going to 
comment on them. The basic thrust of these comments is that we, Raven, as a company, have gone out of our way to make life
difficult for modders. This is mainly based on the Ghoul Modelling system we implemented. Ghoul uses a hybrid of MAX stuff and
SoftImage. Now SoftImage is an expensive program, and we are now hearing complaints that it doesn't all work in MAX. Guys - 
At Raven we try and produce cutting edge games. We (try and) take what others have done and take it to the next level. Be that
animation, storytelling, graphics, whatever. Sometimes the reasons that others stop at the level they do is that the next leve
requires much in the way of rebuilding animation systems and so on. When we go that extra step it often requires a ton of new
code and approaches. Ghoul is this way. We Needed SoftImage to do our animation in, since that's what it is built for, and our
animators (9 times out of 10) can produce better results that way. If it produces better results, then that is what we do. If we
need special skeletons to make all the bolt-ons work, then we do it. Our primary focus is not "will the modding community be able
to do this easily?". It's "Is this the coolest game we can create?". I know that sounds like we don't care, and that's not true, 
we really do. However, if it comes down to "well, we can't use Softimage cos the modders won't be able to do it" or "We can add
bolt ons to the models" then it's going to be SoftImage all the way. Rememeber, we aren't just building an multiplayer game here, 
with 40 animations. We are constructing massive epic single player experiences, and they require a TON of special casing, which
the animation system requires code and suport for.
I can personally vouch for the fact that we are doing our damndest to support the mod community, (I personally spent a week rebuilding
the download functions so they would work properly with downloading Ghoul Models, and making the available in the game), and
any assertion that we are intentionally making life difficult for modders while we steal idea's is at the best laughable.

Work wise, I can't comment much. I'm not allowed to mention what I'm doing now - in fact I was expressly told not to, I think
I've been blabbing too much online:). Suffice to say "It looks amazing, and it's going to have great AI and it's going to push
the genre" etc etc etc.:)

If your bored, take a trip around JAKEWORLD!