
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
17/7/00

I'm a supremely happy man. This weekend I finally got some friends together and we zipped down to Chicago to
pick up a couple of the Arcade Machines that I had languishing in a friends dusty basement. My Revolution X and
WWF Wrestlemania are now sitting in my basement;) And to cap it off, I picked up the Robotron 2048 arcade machine
that I bought from Steve Raffel too. I Remember playing the hell out of that game when I worked at Midway - with
out any doubt my all time favorite game. I even got Eugene Jarvis - and old friend from Midway - to sign the 
marquee, much to the amusement of others I used to work with there. They don't seem to realise that an authentic
Eugene signature on one of his games adds a substantial amount of value to the machine. Not that I'd sell it any
way - I did have one once that I did sell and it was the stupidest thing I've ever done.
Once I started playing again last night I realised what a hole there had been in my life since I last played. 
aahhhhh, nostalgia.

In other news, I've been playing a bit of Dark Reign 2. What a great game! The visuals are especially impressive.
I know that Pandemic are another Activision company, but still, this is a vastly under-rated game. I'm surprised it
hasn't been picked up and play tested by more gaming websites out there. You would be doing yourself a favor if you
are into RTS's and you picked this one up.

Congrats to Third Law on the Kiss demo. Quite honestly I don't think the Kiss part of the licence does the game too 
many favors - there are only so many Kiss fans out there - but the game is pretty sweet by itself. It has certainly
made me more impressed with what Lithtech is capable of. And that's just lith 1.5 too:).

Things are starting to hot up here at Raven as Voyager launches into major crunch mode. What with SOF GOLD in QA at
the same time there is always plenty to do here. GOLD is in the last stages of bug squashing - I'm not entirely sure
what happens next, or what the release date is, so don't email and ask.
For Voyager, there are pretty much two teams working on it, split into single player and multiplayer. I'm helping out
with the multiplayer stuff right now, since there is much to do. Many new game objects and effects to be played with:)
For those that played the demo, I'd have to say that the demo is very much the 'tip of the iceberg' as far as Voyager
Elite Force content is concerned. Perhaps 10% - 15% of the game experience is represented here. From our perspective
here demo's should wet your appetite, not quench it. So look for much more when the game hits the shelves.
As it stands right now we are trying to get a first pass Release Candidate together real soon. I can't be more specific
than that since anyone that's in this industry knows how things go, once you announce anything like that:)

QuakeCon. I shall be attending this year, as I did last year. This year Rick Johnson (SOF lead programmer) and Joe
Koberstein (SOF Lead artist - sorry Eric!) will be accompanying me. We will be demonstrating the 
full version of Voyager : Elite Force on 4 PC's set up there. You will be able to get hands on on the complete single
player and multiplayer experience. If we can set it up, we may even try and get a small CTF tournament going. We'll
see:)
I'm also doing a talk on Voyager on Saturday Morning, before John C's talk. I'll be demo'ing Voyager, and discussing
all that we had to do to the Quake III engine to bring you the single player experience. If you are in the Dallas
Mesquite area, do drop in. I hate talking to an empty room.

By the way, I finished up the C tutorials on Jake World. Billy at VoodooExtreme has the files, he just hasn't posted
them yet. I'm sure they'll be done soon.

Next up, a couple of articles about AI. I've been thinking about it a lot, and reading more than a few articles on the
subject, so look for that.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>