
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8/1/00

Well, it's been exciting around here recently. What with the showdown in the break room between Bob Love and
the Cohorts of Death, he's taken to arriving for work accompanied by two large gentlemen he describes as 'Handlers'.
What they are handling, and indeed, what they do at all apart from walk with Bob everywhere he goes we aren't
sure. However, he seems happy. He always has a smile on his face anyway. Or is that just the sedative stuff he laid
his hands on? 
Please see Bob Love's and Chris Fosters .plan files for more details.

Now, Voyager. Things are going well. The last minute frantic "But I fixed that yesterday??" stuff is going on, 
something everyone in this industry will be familiar with. Everyone is working hard and getting stuff done.

Like I mentioned last .plan I will be at QuakeCon this year, accompanied by Rick Johnson and Jarrod Showers, one
of our animators, to show off Voyager. Both holomatch and the single player experience will be on show, and if
your really lucky we should have an almost gold version of SOF GOLD to demonstrate too. Possibly. We'll see.

We'd love to see anyone who'd be interested in seeing what we at Raven are doing, so please stop by. I'm also
doing a little talk on Saturday morning on Raven and the Quake III engine. Stop by and make it look like I'm
not a complete sad act, please! I have visions of a room with five people in it, and two of them there by
mistake.

Some congrats go out to Third Law for shipping their first product. Well done guys - it's not as easy as it looks
so my heartfelt 'well done's go out to anyone that can achieve it. Also, good luck to Ritual with their second outing
FAKK 2. Everything we've seen says this one is going to be one fun game. It's sad really, all this good stuff 
coming out and giving us so much competition for Elite Force. Oh well. Could be worse, like Heretic II coming out
two days after Half life did. 

Oh, one more other thing. That ATI Radeon card is one hell of a graphics card. Something to definitely give nVidia a
run for their money. Nice to see ATI recover some of the technology ground they had lost.

Lastly, thanks to Grame Devine for taking the time to stop over at Raven to see what we are doing and talk to us about
the Quake III engine. It's always nice to talk to other developers, and even cooler when they have a similar back
ground that you do. Talking about some of the people we know back home in blighty was fun. Next time the beers (sorry, 
guiness) on us.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>