
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8/7/00

Beware, long rambling .plan file ahead. 

Ok, so another QuakeCon has come and gone. Normally I don't get too excited about events
or products in my .plan file, but after this years extravaganza, I do feel the need to say a 
few things.

As I reflect on the past few days it occurs to me that there truly are some really cool, 
interesting and just plain smart people and products in the gaming industry. In lots of ways 
this last QuakeCon has restored my faith in this business.

Firstly QuakeCon itself - at least 4 times bigger than it was last year. The Bring-Your-Own-
Computer room was just an event in it self. 2000+ people all playing Quake 3 was something to
behold, as were some of things that people had done to their PC to give them either a
competitive edge, or just plain to look cool. There were some completely transparent PC cases
on display that I'm amazed no major vendor has yet picked up on. I would buy one of those
transparent perspex PC cases in a heart beat if they were available.

The Vendor area was also very cool to behold. For those that attended last year but not this,
it was basically taking up the entire room that the BYOC room was last year. Large to say to
the least. Sega demonstrated a very good version of Quake III on the dreamcast - something that
has totally changed my mind on the both viability of the DreamCast, and also converted me into
one of those that will pick up a DreamCast some time soon. Apple showed off some seriously
nice hardware - the G4 Cube Rocks so much it's hard to believe - plus the new styling of the
mouse and speakers also is great, if extremely phallic. Nvidia wowed everyone with their hardware,
no surprise there:) There was a vendor - who's name escapes me right now - demoing some very
cool stuff for lugging you PC around, and LinkSys did their thing with some nice routers - 
particularly stuff aimed for the Home Lan. I could seriously use one of their little DSL/Cable
home routers, that enable you to share acces across multiple machines on just one IP.

Then there were the products. Wolf from Grey Matter looked awesome. And so did Team Arena -
some very new idea's there that will give gamers something new to play.

Voyager was well received I think - everyone that played it seemed to have good words to say 
about it. I think the best thing I heard came from LowTax of SomethingAwful.com. After playing
a bit of Voyager HoloMatch with him, (and talking a *lot* of trash too:))  he basically said
"yeah, this is cool". I mentioned something about us making it as Star Trekky as possible and
he said "Oh, I hate Star Trek, but this is just cool". From my point of view, that is what we
want to hear. Even if I do have the reflexes of a dead cat, apparently. :)
SOF Gold made it's first appearence too, it was nice to get some postive feedback on that as
well.

Now I have to say a huge thank you to various people that made this QuakeCon a real event for
the Raven Crew. 
The modder Teams - Q3A Fortress, the girls from Armetis Software and the guys from Urban Terror.
*So much cooler* people than I had ever thought they would be. These people know what they are
doing, and are producing product that amazes me with its professionalism. Developing a game
in house is hard enough, but these people do it with people spread out all over the world and
*still* produce fun stuff. I say good for them, and lets see more.
Cass Evrit and Jim Black from nVidia - thanks for taking time to discuss with us whats coming
in the nVidia world. Very interesting.
Araon Seeler of Raster Productions. Araon is the guy behind the N64 conversion of Quake II and 
the new Sega version of Quake III. This guy rocks, and his stuff shows it. To say I was
impressed is to put it mildly. What's even more amazing is there are just 4 people in Raster
doing all this amazing goodness. Araon is on very cool guy, and knows how to have fun. :)
The guys from Ritual. I had no idea Ritual is so cool. Mark Dochterman, Ron Dimant and Levelord, 
thanks for understanding when we didn't make it to your offices. It was *really* nice to 
finally meet you guys - Major Congrats on FAKK 2, I hope it is everything it should be for you
guys.
Of course no thank you list would be complete without saying thanks to John Romero and Stevie
Case who made the effort to come out and say hello. Nice car Stevie:)
The webmasters also came out in force. It was like Jeff K.'s Island of the WebMasters at some
points. Sean from Stomped stopped by, we hung out with LooniBoi - who has lots of interesting
stories, as does his sister Stephanie - the guys from ShugaShack said hello, and I finally
got to play Voyager against Lowtax. Now that's one *interesting* person. Also, major thanks
go to HellChick for getting us into the Toga party in the first place.
I have to say a huge thank you to the guys from Id, particularly Tim Wilits, Robert
Duffy, Jim Dose, Todd Hollenstead and Marty Stratton, who all spent time hanging out with us
and just generally being cool. And by proxy Anna Kang, who is a font of energy and fun, and
who also has the coolest business card I think I have ever seen:)
And lastly, thanks to John C. for being the driving force behind one of the best games out there.
I barely got time to nod hello to him this time round, but that's ok - it was cool just to be
there and a part of it all.

And thanks for all the comments about the Toga. Yes, that is me in all my glory. And it's 
Senator Simpson to you:)

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>