Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8/12/00

Wow, Raven is SOOO quiet. It's a saturday, and I'm in finishing up some code on project X and I'm alone here.
What with GenCon going on in Milwaukee, and Voyager in code release, all done bar the sign off, it's made Raven
a ghost town. I don't remember when it was last this quiet here. Except for us sad acts that have nothing else to
do on a nice Saturday. The beer festival was sold out of tickets, what can I say?

I have to make a correction to something I said in my seminar at QuakeCon. I informed the audience that we at Raven
had lowered the max number of clients possible on a Holomatch server from the 128 that Quake III can theoretically
support to 32, since we were having problems with memory allocation at numbers over 48. However, it appears that
while I was at QuakeCon, the offending piece of code was found and threatened with a recompile it would never forget,
and it now works. This is nice, we can maintain that 128 client limit. The only reason I mention this is that there
was a gentleman at the seminar who mentioned that he runs a server / website that is dedicated to running the largest
game he can run. He was concerned at this lower limit, and I just would like to take this opportunity to correct my
mistake.

What follows are personal musings, and not the official stance of Raven software on anything.

Now on to a subject I have been kicking around for a while now. Last night I booted up FAKK2 and spent some time 
running around and admiring Julie Strains very nicely contoured bottom. Anyway I found all the possibilities when it
came to utilising weapons and so on very cool, but sometimes too much to deal with when in complex combat situations.
Now I'm not bashing FAKK2 at all here - the guys from Ritual were kind enough to send this to me:) - more I'm bashing
my own ability to handle this complex a game play. There is so much to bear in mind when playing a game with this much
combat depth that I am rapidly approaching my own limits on what I can handle. When I play FreeSpace II I have my joystick
all programed with all the hot keys I think I need, however, I keep forgetting which one is which, and end up thrusting
when I should be shooting. 
And this got me to thinking. I wonder why it is that I can't handle this? Am I just an idiot with the reflexes of a dead
cat, as Lowtax would have you believe, or is there more to it? I'm 32 now, and I was brought up on the old Atari and
Commodore 64 games, where there really wasn't that much depth in them, bearing in mind you had to fit an entire game into
32k or less. John Carmack's comments about playing lots of console games because they are dip games, where you can sit down
play for 20 minutes, then get up and leave and never think about it again, really struck a cord with me, since that's the
kind of game I tend to play.
Investing time and energy developing a character, and sweating it all out to get the latest spells and so on has never 
really been my style, and I was thinking about the reasons for that. Being in the business, often your time is not your
own, simply put you don't often get the time to sit down and build a character from the ground up. Secondly, I want to play
a game for an end result, IE the end of the game, rather than spend the time playing so I can get a new spell. - There is a
difference I think, one gives you a sense of closure and "I did that", and the other simply allows you to continue playing
ad-infinitum.
Then there is my own personal history, I was brought up on dip games, and my 6 years at Midway developing arcade machines
reinforced this. There are no loads and saves or pausing in an arcade game. Game play is literaly WYSIWIG. Up til now I've
never questioned why I feel this way about involvment games, but recently I have, what with the success of EverQuest and such.
Now, while I may have good reasons for feeling this way, the latest crop of game addicted kids don't think this way. They
have time and energy to spare investing in character development, and I can only surmise that it's because they don't have the
same history in 'simple' games that I do. They have grown up with games much more complex that I did, and are better equipped
and more inclined to handle it. That's not to say there isn't a place for this kind of game in todays world - god knows
Quake III and Unreal Tournament prove this, just that the market share for this is diminishing over time. People expect
and demand greater content and 'depth' - whatever that is defined as at the time - and as a developer I see it getting harder
and harder to properly fufil this demand in an interesting and fun way.
There's no real point to all this stream of consciousness, I was just interested in seeing where it would all go if I got it
down in black and white, rather than just rattling around my head.
If you have comments on this, drop me a line. I may get around to penning an article about it sometime.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>