Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8/21/00

Well. Since Keith Fuller has revealed his shocking news that he actually mowed his lawn for the first time this weekend, I guess
it's ok that I reveal the exclusive news here that I put up some shelves this weekend. Not only that, I mowed my lawn too! Only not
for the first time, so it's probably not so shocking as Keiths news.
Now, I expect this to headline at Blues News, Evil Avatar, Stomped, ShugaShack and VoodooExtreme to name just a few news sites. Most
of my recent .plan updates have failed to make all the news sites, and I'm starting to doubt my newsworthyness here. Either I'm not
putting the right information in my .plans, or I'm just as boring as soft smelly brown stuff. You make the call:)
And no emails on that thank you;)

On more work related stuff, Voyager is in the final round of bug crashing. Everyone is eagerly anticipating the large booze up that
will inevitably accompany the cries of "it's Gold, It's Gold! Thank god. Now I can sleep".

SOF gold is tracking down a couple of leagacy crash bugs, to do with A3D. It's become apparent that there are a couple of MSDEV
optimization tricks that we weren't completely cognisant of, which resulted in the aforementioned crash.

Design is going well for project Y (not be confused with project X, which is what I'm doing"). Keith Fuller touched upon some of this
in his latest SOF center Designer Diary.
Project X - well, there's not much I can say about this. Or rather there is lots I could say, but then I'd have to kill you. Best I
don't say anything really isn't it? John Mullins has enough to do without me giving him more work:)

I'd like to say thank you to everyone that sent me usbmouse.irx, which I was looking to get my hands on elsewhere. I have it now, so
thanks.

Here's a question for all you potential PSX2 buyers out there. If USB keyboard and mouse support were available in a given product,
would that prompt you to go and buy them? I'm looking for answers from primarily console players rather than PC players that are
going to give the PSX2 a shot.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>