
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8/14/00

Work stuff first.
I can't tell you anything. It's kinda frustrating actually since there are some opinions I would love to canvass on certain
subjects, but I am under orders to keep schtum. So mum is the word.
Raven now has three projects going again. Kind of. Lets call them Project X, Y and Z. I'm on project X. Actually it's a two part
project, so we should call it X1 and X2.
Voyager should be on the shelves in a few days, so that's going to be nice. Sof GOLD is straining at the leash to be let free, so
that should be announced as gold pretty soon I think.
PSX2 wise we are starting to see some dresults on evelopement of what we are doing. It's an exciting time to be a developer,
delving into a new machine and learning it's secrets.

What I'm looking forward to from others - I'm definitely going to go pick up Cataclysm from Relic. That looks awesome. I loved 
Homeworld, so this is a no brainer. I'm interested to see how Sacrifice is going to look. The screen shots do look interesting.
Also, I'm beginning to think that Volitions Red Faction is starting to look great. The screen shots I have seen are beginning to
pique my interest, so that's one to watch I think.

Warning - long political ramble below. Ignore if you have no interest in the FTC report.

Before I go any further on this I ought to point out that this rant is NOT representative of Raven or Activisions views on the FTC
report, they just represent Jake Simpson's views as a game developer.

Last night I watched the Senate Committee hearings on violence being aimed at children that was shown on CSPAN. And very interesting
it was too. I'm kinda surprised that we haven't seen more developers voice their feelings and issues with this situation. And because
I'm my fathers son, I think I'm going to comment.
I have several comments to make on the both the hearings themselves and the people in it, and then on the issue at stake.
The part I watched had the end of an interview with one of the guys from the FTC itself who was instrumental in compiling the report.
He seemed pretty detached from all that he was purporting. Then we had everyone's friend Lynne Chenny telling us about how terrible
Eminem's lyrics are - not that I'd disagree personally - and how the executives that produced this should be shamed publically. Why
is it, I wonder, that before every attack on the personal freedoms defended by the 1st amendment, those doing the attack have to 
state "I am the first to defend the 1st amendment and all that it stands for". As soon as I hear those words I hear the word "But.."
I brace myself for the attack that is coming.
Pretty much everything that Lynne had to say was fairly predictable and could have come from anyone concerned mother that doesn't know
what to do.
And that, to me, is pretty much the crux of the matter. She doesn't know what to do in terms of protecting her children, and wants the
government to do it for her. She wants warnings, public shaming of people that produce gratuitous idea's, and so on. One step on and 
we are at the public flogging stage.
However, she IS a parent. If she doesn't know what to do about protecting her children, then why is she a parent at all? That's what
parent's do isn't it? Provide and protect their children? There was much unspoken dialog there it seemed to me along the lines of 
"It would seem that America is full of parents that just aren't good parents, and now they need the government to do it for them".

At one point one of the senators told a story concerning how his child had received a Limp Bizkit CD from a friend, and how his wife
had listened to it to discern it's appropriateness, and been disgusted by it. Well ok. That's fine. In fact, that's better than fine.
That's EXACTLY what I would call good parenting. Taking an interest and experiencing what their child is going to. I was a bit surprised
that no one lept to their feet and pounded some tables saying "Exactly! Exactly!". There is no substitute for parental involvement.
I totally believe it is for each parent to decide what is appropriate for their child, not the Senate or Congress. And if more parents
did as this senator did, then we wouldn't be in this mess.

Then came the most interesting part of the proceedings, where Peter Moore - CEO of Sega -, Greg Fishback - CEO of Acclaim -, Strauss
Zelnick - CEO of BMG, a recording company -, and Peter Goldberg - CEO of Artemis records - sat down and basically tore apart both
the FTC report and any idea's anyone might have had about censorship. Of the four I found Strauss Zelnick the most interesting of the
bunch, although both Moore and Fishback had some interesting statistics to mention. I found Fishbacks refuting of the point regarding
cross marketing of games and toys very illuminating. For those that didn't follow this, basically the FTC were making waves about the
fact that Acclaim produced a wrestling game with an M rating, but there were toys in stores for the game that were aimed at kids 3 and
up. When Fishback got to the stand, he pointed out that they were NOT responsible for the toys. They licenced the likeness of the 
wrestlers from the Wrestling group, and put an M rating on the game because of some cursing by the wrestlers. The toys came from the 
Wrestling group themselves, and not from Acclaim. They didn't even know they were out there. Hardly the sinister cross promotion that
the FTC would have you believe.
Strauss Zelnick made some real points concerning the original point of WHY the FTC report was commissioned in the first place. The gist
of what he said was "Ok - we have this report made because of rising violence in youth culture. We are placing the blame with some of
the content of popular culture, so lets look at that." He made the point that American pop culture is all over the world, and no where
else has the violence that we see here in America. One statistic he made referred to about 150 child shootings last year in England, 
Germany and Japan combined, whereas the figure was more like 5000 here. And what's different between the other countries and here?
Availablity of weapons. I could go off on a tangent about the appropriateness of owning personal weapons, but that's an argument for
another time. The main point here is that it is less pop culture per-se that is causing the violence, but more the outlets this violence
takes the form in. We've had angry 16 year olds for years, that hasn't changed. Access to weapons has.
Whether we take the argument that owning weapons are appropriate or not, the responsibility for access to these weapons rests again with
the parents. And evidently they aren't doing their job, or we wouldn't be in this situation.

Other points were made regarding the appropriateness of any kind of censorship of wording of violent music, or videogames. The argument
put forth by the senators seemed to be "we can do this for movies, why can't we for music and games?". On the games front I'll comment
in a minute. For the music arena the response was that "this is about words - there are no images. We can't just censor nudity because
there isn't any". The whole point of a lyric is that it is an idea and evokes a feeling. How do you censor idea's and feelings? The come
back to that was "We don't want to censor, just inform the parent buying the product of what's inside". However it occurs to me that the
same arguments occur. Who decides that the idea contained within a CD is appropriate for a warning sticker or not? The mere process of 
applying a warning means that someone out there disapproves of it. At least they aren't looking to stop production of what is out there
though, merely provide better warnings. That at least is vindication that the Senate understands it is not their place to censor idea's,
merely to make people more aware of the contents of a potential purchase.

But back to games. It seems to me that we DO have a decent warning system in the MSRB. Their warning stickers are highly visible and almost
everyone in the games industry supports both the warning system and the MSRB's right to administer it. We here at Raven certainly have.
The problem from where I sit is that a) we can put all the stickers on a game we want, if no parent looks at it, then what are we supposed
to do? We are suppplying the parent with the tools they need, but if they don't do anything about it, what are we supposed to do? Banning
the development of violent games is not the answer to parents being lazy or out of touch. and b) If we do sticker the game, we do expect the
retailers to actually use this rating as a guide to who they sell the game too. If they don't then all the sticker does is make the game
more attractive to younger buyers. I am personally gratified to see Kmart and WalMart stepping up to the block and enforcing some rules
regarding game sales. We need more of this.

More points were made regarding the completeness and frankly the incorrectness of factual evidence within the report itself. The afore
mentioned point about cross promotion certain brings questions about this reports validity to my mind, and the refuting of the findings
regarding advertising during shows aimed at children by Peter Moore (his point was that these shows were purported to be aimed at children
when closer examination of the viewing figures actually reveal that these shows named are watched by 70% over 18's. So much for that report
factoid.) makes more food for though. I for one, when faced with these points regarding the report have to question the rest of the reports
validity.

I'm inserting thanks here to Messers Moore, Fishback, Goldberg and particularly Zelnick for going to bat for our industries. These are men
that it appears to me have no problem shouldering the responsibility of our what our industries produce, and are proud to stand up and be
counted. Not that any words from me will make any difference to these guys I'm sure, but I'd like to say it anyway.

However, none of this really addresses the reason the FTC report was commissioned. The basic premise is that the FTC was commissioned to
prepare a report to determine if the entertainment industry is targeting children for in-appropriate images. I get the distinct impression
from those FTC people I have seen so far that they have the logic that "if we have to make this report, then it logically follows that
this is happening, so we have to provide evidence of this" and as such have produced this document. Since the report was published the
senate committee are regarding it as a legal proven document, and for my money therein lies the mistake. This report is NOT conclusive.
We've already been over some flaws in it. God knows how many more there are. That's not to say that some of it isn't justified of course.
I can't comment on what the film industry is a party to. I wouldn't put it past them to do some of what the report says they do. However
I know for a fact that we here at Raven and almost certainly 99% of the rest of the video games industry is not guilty of what we are
being accused of.
Anyway, my point here is that given the slips in this document, it should be treated as something that has to be proven, rather than
being treated as something that's already proven. It's being used by senators that say "Well, it says here that you....." and then attempt
to put entertainment CEO's on the spot. By all means engage in a dialog with these CEO's - all have expressed interest in working with
the commission, - just don't open that dialog by accusations that they easily point out are based on flawed facts. It just makes this 
report and the senators look un-prepared.

Overall I found the whole hearing to be three older guys, who are way out of touch with what's going on when it comes to what kids are
into these days struggling to understand the situation, and then pronouncing judgement on it. From what I could see two of them already
had their minds made up, and rather than trying to just educate themselves, it seemed like they were more interested in pronouncing moral
judgements on what's out there. From what I've seen so far this has all the pointers of a thinly veiled witch hunt, and not an exploration
of the possibilities of indicating to potential purchases of the content of what they are buying.
Sad indeed.
About the only person so far that is appears remotely trustworthy is Senator John Mcain. He did seem ernestly aware of the position he is in
as Chairman of the committee, and did seem interested in learning about the situation and what it is appropriate for the Senate to be doing.

Ok, done now. Like I said, this is Just Jake talking here, not official views of the companies I work for. 


If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>