
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9/22/00

As Elite Force hits the shelves and everyone here takes a breather, I just wanted to take some time to say congratulations
to my work mates here at Raven. Some astonish effort and talent have been displayed here by everyone involved since I joined
two and a half years ago. Three games have been released in that time period, and I'm more than a little impressed with both
the titles themselves, and the ability shown by the people here to get it done.
Raven is without doubt the best job I've ever had, and I'm damn glad to be working among these people. It certainly makes you
reach into yourself to pull out your best when everyone else around you is doing the same.
Oh, everyone except Bob Love of course. But that goes without saying:).

We are not sitting around on our laurels though. Work has already commenced on my PSX2 project, and as I reported a bit ago, we
are starting to see some real results. Much thought and deliberation has gone into some of the new tech we've been building, and
without going into details I can say the results are looking better than we expected. We are definitely after the code nirvana of
reusable blocks, with the plan being to reuse several objects of code not just in what I'm doing, but in what the SOF team does
next, and what the Elite Force Team does next. This is a boon for everyone since everyone profits, artists, modellers, designers
and everyone use the same set of tools and can swap from project to project as needed, which happens alot at Raven.

I'm thinking of doing an update to Jakeworld, revamping it a bit, adding a few girls, doing a few more rants, and adding an
editorial section too. This would enable me to do my little political rants without dragging Ravens name into the mix. It's not
fair on them or Acvitision.

I did an interview for GameSpy where we were talking about 10 years down the road. I made this glorious statement - 
"Given Moores law of cpu's doubling in complexity every 18 months that means we will have processors 6.6 times more complex
than we have now". I defend this bloody stupid statement on the grounds that I had a temperature of 102 at the time when I wrote
it. The correct cpu multipler answer is, of course, actually 2 to the power of 6 which is 64. So we are looking at processors 64
times more complex than we have now. Thank you every one that saw what an idiot I was.

One last thing. Jeff K. does seem more juvenile than I had originally imagined. It was hard to stop him ranting off for pages and
pages over Fagots and other stuff of this ilk. How does this man manage to surivive day to day I wonder? Why hasn't he bitten his
own hands off yet?
My sympathy for poor Cliffy B. expands daily.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>