
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10/6/00

I just had all my wisdom teeth out. Yay, now that's something I can recommend to everyone out there. Man does it hurt.

Anyway, I wanted to take this opportunity to record how bummed I am at the Sector 14 announcement that Babylon 5 - Into the Fire
got cancelled due to Sierra's unwillingness to sell the assets. I can only hope that Sierra has some plans for those assets, since
I was *really* looking forward to playing Bab 5. I had some fun watching it at E3 a couple of years back, and spent some time
chatting with the design team at the Game Dev conference a couple of years back. It's a shame that all that effort has been lost.

In other news I might mention I made a brief update to Jakeworld, and the next thing I'm planning on adding is a .plan history for
myself over there. I have them all on my machine, so why not make them available to you guys? I was re-reading them the other day and
I found it interesting, the evolution of me working at Raven. Very Ego driven but there you go:)

I'm also planning on setting up an Editorial section so I can rant about political stuff without having Raven's name dragged into it.
I was going to move it to jakeworld.com too, but some guy already has it. Maybe I should get jakeworld.org or .net instead.

Work wise, well, I can't say anything. Every project we have - and some we don't - is now officially designated G-14 Classified.
In fact I can't even mention that I work for Raven anymore.

On the other hand I can talk about the TV commericals for Elite Force in the season opener for Voyager. Normally I try not to get all
gushy about stuff like that, but it was cool. We were sitting around the other day trying to come up with what other PC only games have
had a TV commerical. Obviously PC games with a console version have, but we couldn't come up with any purely PC games. There must have
been some, but we couldn't remember them.
James Monroe, lead programmer, was mentioning that it was weird seeing it on TV. This is something we are all intimately familiar with
from the last 2 years of work, so to see it on TV was no big deal. "Oh, it's just Voyager again". Then to realise it's ON TV! Quite the
wow factor.

I also need to mention the paintball game we all played here last weekend. Every year Raven sponsers a Paintball game for the company
and spouses (A big thanks to Brian Raffel, Kenn Hoekstra et al who organised it). It was a cool experience, even if Bob Love managed to
shoot me in the ass twice. Thanks Bob. I hope I can repay the favor next year, preferably with an M-16 :). Maybe I should get John
Mullins to tag along as my body guard?

One last thing. I'd like to take this opportunity, as Jake Simpson and as an official Raven representitive to say a huge Thank You to
the game playing public out there. We here at Raven have produced two games in the last few months, both of which have made it into 
the top 20 selling games. Bearing in mind less that 5% of all games released make it into this list, it's something to be proud of.
And the reason they made it there is because you guys bought them. You, the paying public, are the ultimate judges of a game since you
vote with your cash, and we here are very concious of that. So thanks. We appreciate the support. Just me saying thanks seems a very
small thing, but it's really all I can do.

And as the old saying goes "You ain't seen nothing yet". Boy do we have some stuff coming. :)

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>