
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
01/12/01

Hey! We're in the "naughties" now! Cool! I mean, I love saying I'm a "naughties guy" as opposed to a "nineties guy".

Anyway, onto this Xbox vs Ps2 thing that I'm seeing so much of on various websites. Now that I've got 5 seconds to
myself I thought I'd weigh in myself. I've got a reputation for having a big gob, I might as well fufil it.

Everyone seems so concerned about "who will win?" and "Will the PC die?". I dunno, it seems to me sitting here
that there is more than enough room in the console world for both. The real question in my mind is what's going on
with Sega and Nintendo. I can totally see that Sega see's the writing on the wall hardwarewise, although this PC card with a 
dreamcast sitting on it sounds very interesting.

I just wonder about Nintendo in the American market. It will absolutely do great in Japan, but the American and 
Japanese markets are very different. Given that Sony and MS will have a bit of time to establish themselves I wonder
at exactly who besides the hardcore gamers are going to buy the gamecube.

Now as for PS2 vs MS, well, I've a few thoughts there. I think it's very interesting the sequence of events we've
seen over the PS2 and the XBox. When the PS2 was announced, Sony went after PC developers to create content for the
new machine. At the first Sony Dev conference for the PS2 there were PC developers in abundance. Come the second
conference, there were less than 15% of the original PC developers there. Why? Because the PS2 requires a lot of
low level programming to get the best out of it. You can't just plug in Direct X or OpenGL to get stuff up. Most PC
developers really don't want to be involved in this. Hence lots dropping out.
It's a bit unfortunate really, since once you have a decent set of VU code to do your rendering, that's it. It's not
like the hardware is going to change. You can use it again and again with little or no change. But lots of PC
developers are afraid of that initial "oh I have to learn multi-threaded assembly to get this to work" thing.

Now with the Xbox, it's basically a frozen PC in a box, it comes with an operating system and a graphics / sound API
and it even uses the same developers tools that PC developers have been using for years. Of course you want to jump 
on that if you are a PC developer. There is no reason not to.

On the other hand, I think it's going to be very interesting to see what game content comes about. Consoles ARE very
different from the environment most PC developers are used to. Consoles are about dip games. They are about games
you use a hand controller for, not a mouse and keyboard. You won't be playing stuff like age of empires on the Xbox
too much simply because it absolutely sucks playing with a controller for that sort of game. Yes the Xbox has a USB
(of a sort) on it, and you CAN plug in a mouse keyboard but a) Who is really going to do that on the floor of their
living room and b) You can't develop a game that requires that stuff. If you do, you limit your purchase base way 
too much. If you are developing a game that isn't going to require a mouse and keyboard, then it has to be easily
controllable by a standard controller, in order for people to want to play it. And if you do that, then several
generes that PC developers love, by and large, get very difficult to implement.

I honestly don't see that either the Xbox or the PSX2 are going to be the new internet appliance for the living room
until some NEW killer app comes along.
Quite frankly looking at webpages on you TV sucks. The resolution isn't there, and trying to handle a keyboard when
sitting on your couch sucks as well.
I can see it if we could hook up a little web cam and get real time video phones going, or maybe use the Xbox / psx2
to download MP3's and play them on your stereo, but I don't see it with any of the real internet apps you have now.

It's going to be interesting to see what happens.

As for "will the pc die?", I highly doubt that. No one is really going to want to do the family finances on a PSX2
or an Xbox. The PC evolves, consoles do not. There is some margin for argument here, since the Xbox is almost a PC, 
but not really enough to emphatically say it's going to kill another very large computing area.

Besides, this is MS we are talking about here. Where do they get their revenues from? Operating systems. They are
hardly likely to shoot themselves in the foot by taking business away from either themselves or the Dells and 
Gateways of this world.

Just my $0.02

Now on to some complaining:) Doing it here always helps me feel calmer afterwards.
Todays target :- Charter Communications. Or more specifically the Madison office thereof.

For the unitiated, Charter Communications, formerly Bresnan Communications formerly something else are cable TV and 
cable Modem carriers for the @home network. I get my cable service from them. 
Well, to cut a long story short, they suck. Normally I don't get that specific, but in this case I will.

Not only do their cable TV and Modem division not actually talk to each other, but they have different billing depts
too. However, when you get a bill from them, the only contact number you get is for the cable TV dept. Now, we
cancelled our Cable TV since we already use a DSS dish. However we kept getting bills from them, weird ones. When
we called to sort it out, the cable TV people said we didn't owe them anything, so disregard it. I think "ok, this 
is weird since we have a Cable modem, but they are Charter, they must know, so ok". Then I get cut off with my cable
modem. Great. So I call again to complain, then spend a weekend tracking down what has gone wrong with THEIR billing
system. Not only will they not admit it's their fault for having a bloody silly billing system, but to add insult
to injury they want to charge me an addition $35 to reconnect the service. That's bloody cheek where I come from.

And then add to that the fact that the service dies for 3 minutes out of every 5, where I can't talk to any thing
out side of my local network, which makes playing games or even reading websites out of the question, you can imagine
how I feel about them. From about 4:30 to after midnight everyday my service is to all intents and purposes useless.
When I call the tech support, the techs refuse to talk to me because I employ a win2k server at home so I can share
the IP address they give me with more than one machine. Great. Not only am I not able to complain about the service, 
but no one at Charter will help me diagnose what's going on, to be sure it's not my system doing it. Something I
highly doubt anyway, since the problem has been getting worse, and only occurs within set times. Even the tech I've
spoken with agree's with that. All un-officially of course.

Now can I get DSL in my area? I cannot. Can I go to a competing Cable Carrier? I cannot, there isn't one. So much
for market forces. What is it with that anyway? Why isn't there a competing carrier? I thought the whole point of
democracy was to have no monopolies? Why can't I choose from three or four Cable carriers?

Charter Communications are unhelpful, somettimes downright rude, give bad service, and have some incredibly
draconian rules and regs.
If you can avoid them, do so. For me, there simply isn't another broadband solution here to go with.

One last thing. If, when watching that new Reality TV show Temptation Island, you listen reaaaaal carefully, you
can just about hear western civilisation crashing around us. Werd.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>