
Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
01/15/01

Well, I said last time I did a .plan update that I had a big gob, and I'm going to re-iterate that again.

We here at Raven have been watching the web advertising implosion of 00/01 and it's depressing the hell out of us.
Well, me anyway. My morning always starts out perusing the websites to see what's new and what I need to catch up on.
I check out Blues, Voodoo Extreme, Evil Avatar, Stomped, SugaShack and so on. To see any of these having problems
makes me personally feel real bad. Almost everyone of these sites started out as a personal hobby that took off
and is now their principle means of earning a crust. To see anyone's livelyhood threatened is not a pretty sight, 
but when it's based on something you poured your heart and soul into, then the bile is doubly bitter.

As a game developer I'd like to make a point of saying to those web masters out there, do whatever you have to do
to stay afloat. I know that more ads and the whole pop up idea is pretty repugnant to most of you - god knows it
is to those that read your stuff - but you really need to do what's necessary to survive in todays market until a
more stable advertising infrastructure comes along. I could personally careless if I have to wade through 5 ads
before I get the news content if that's what is required. It's better I get the news than not, and having all
that ad stuff is just a necessary evil that I (and most readers I think) will deal with. There is no such thing as
a free lunch, and I think most recognise that.

Good luck to all of you, Steve H., Phil, Billy, Sean, Steve G. and especially Rich Kyanka, who is already sounding
the warning bells of a ship sighting an iceberg. I do hope SomethingAwful.com sticks around since it gives me a
much needed laugh in the morning, even if I am a frequent target.

Now back to your regularly scheduled programming. - God I wish we'd hurry up and announce what we are doing next
so I can start talking about it:) But it's worth the wait, believe me.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>