Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
02/26/01

Since I have a couple of moments while waiting for someone to finish something, I thought I'd dump out a .plan update.
I just read Warren Spectors Post Mortem of Deus Ex. What an interesting read. Deus Ex was/is a great game, but it's always
interesting to see what happened while it was being made. And not only that, but it's nice to read something by someone 
who evidently has more experience in the game development industry than most, but makes a point of stating "I don't have all
the answers". Such honesty about what went on during development, and the personal and professional mistakes that were and 
might have been made is very refreshing. 
Congrats to the entire Deus Ex team for a job well done, and definitely congrats to Warren for an interesting article.

On other subjects, I was going to make mention of our PSX2 project. While I still can't mention what it is, I can mention
that I'm finally able to return to it after developing some new technology for our other PC based projects. It's nice to
finally be developing tech that will be re-used in more than one project. We can finally start getting into game stuff on
our PSX2 project which is nice, after spending so much time building basic systems. Programmers will know what I mean when
I say it's a nice feeling when a system you've been building in an almost vacum starts getting used in a game environment, 
and you start seeing people do things with it you didn't think of at the time.

I wish I could say more, but things have to remain in the shadows for a little while longer. Believe me when I tell you that
we here at Raven haven't been sitting on our hands, even though the lack of info coming from us makes it sound like it.

And on the new Id engine demo - very very impressive guys. Now I wonder what will come from Tim and the guys at Epic. If anyone
can approach and match what Id is doing, it will be Tim and his co-horts. The near future is going to be very interesting.:)

One last thing. Why is no one doing a Doctor Who game? Why is there no Doctor Who TC or Mod for Quake or UT?? I WANT TO SHOOT
DALEKS! Come on people... wake up! :)

And one last last thing. Why is almost EVERY GAMING WEBSITE all running that damn annoying Shock the Monkey ad banner? Message for
who ever runs the ad server - this is an annoying and dumb internet ad. It was annoying when it first came out, and it's even more
annoying now. This has run it's course. You've done your duty to Satan and sufficiently irritated enough souls now. Can we just 
get onto the next stage please?

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>