Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Programmer
Project: Pretty much everything
Web Page: <a href="http://www2.ravensoft.com/users/jakeworld">JakeWorld</a>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/11/01

While I'm doing a complete re-build of two codebases at once, and taxing my poor PC, I thought I'd a quick .plan update.

Firstly, some people have been mentioning that they think I'm a lead programmer (or indeed any kind of programmer) on SOF2.
I'm not. I'm lead programmer on our PSX2 game, but one of my other hats is the programmer of Ghoul2, so I spend a fair amount
of my time working on both our current PC projects because they both use it. Just thought I'd clear that up.

So E3. I am going to be there in an official capacity, but doing what I can't say right now.
We will most assuredly be demoing SOF2 though, on multiple machines. So come along and see what all the fuss is about, and 
see if the screen shots we've released so far match up to your expectations.

Personally I'm looking forward to seeing - in no particular order, and assuming they are being shown - Freedom Force,
Unreal Warfare, Red Faction, that incredibly pretty game AquaNox - those screen shots are nothing if not beautiful - and
definitely the Game Cube Rogue Squadron II. Now that is a game I have been waiting to play for 20 years. I just hope it doesn't
suffer from that bad game design decision concerning the At At leg roping that Rogue Squadron I did. I think to be honest from
what I've seen this one game alone is enough to sell me a Game Cube. I'd like to see Max Payne, and of course I have to see the
DukeNukem video. Halo goes without saying of course. Aliens Vs. Predator II looks like one to watch I'd say, and I'm going to 
be interested to see what Interplay does with Star Trek : Shattered Universe too.

And lastly, Pat Lipo made us sit through the video tapings from Cyclones this evening. Curse you Pat, I don't think I'm ever 
going to quite recover from it. Imagine the worst cheesy day time soap acting and multiply it by about 30 and your still not
even close. When I say he made us sit through it, I mean it.
Thanks Pat. This now means I can sit through 'Freddy got fingered' and not think it's the worst movie ever.

If your bored, take a trip around <a href = "http://www2.ravensoft.com/jakeworld">JAKEWORLD!</a>