Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jake Simpson
Email: jsimpson@ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Programmer
Project: Pretty much everything
Web Page: JakeWorld
Last Updated: 05/21/2001 16:56:01 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/21/01

Another E3 over with. I thought I'd write up some of my thoughts on what I saw, and what I didn't see, while
I still remember.

Good stuff.
Dungeon Siege. Chris Taylor who I got to meet for the first time is a really nice bloke, and in charge
of a terrific looking game. Smooth, incredibly pretty and something I think I will definitely have an 
interest in. Although some of the icons are damn small at the resolution they were running. 

Balders Gate : Dark Alliance on the PSX2. Now I don't know about anyone else, but this looked amazing.
A cross between Gauntlet Legends and Diablo, this looked good, played well and I'm all eyes for it.

Squadron Leader : Rogue Squadron II on the GameCube. Wow. No other word for it. 130k poly star destroyers
running at 60fps, and that's not counting the 30 or so TIE and Xwing models all zooming around in view too.
This is a game I have been waiting 20 years to play. This just sold me a GameCube right here. Wow. 

Aliens Versus Predator 2. I had a poke around with this one. I dunno, but it just seems pretty exciting.
The visuals were a bit drab - it seemed to suffer a bit from Quake 1 palette syndrom, but it did look like
there was a ton of potential. The AI needs work to stop your team mates from getting in the way, because
they sure did a lot when I was looking at it. But it still feels like this could be a very cool game.

Tony Hawk on the GameBoy Advance. Another near perfect game. The GameBoy Advance quite frankly is one of the 
coolest things I've seen in a while - although it's still missing that one thing that it so desperately needs.
HELLO NINTENDO - CAN WE HAVE SOME BACKLIGHTING PLEASE?? I know it kills the batteries, but at least give me 
the option? Other than that though, it's Seriously cool and I am consumed with a deep and abiding techno lust
for this little toy.

Freedom Force. Now I had totally the wrong idea of what to expect for this, I thought it would be all real time
and stuff like that. It isn't, but it's certainly interesting. I like the art style, although I do wonder at
the whole control system. It just didn't seem that intuitive from where I stood, with menus popping up everywhere.

SpiderMan 2. The first one rocked. The second one rocks more. Nuff Said.

There was a game on the PSX2 I noticed - I think it was called SlipHeed or something like that. It's a jazzed up
version of a good old fashioned vertical scrolling shootemup, something we've been lacking for a while. It just
looked great, and I was most impressed.

Another game I saw, - again, which I don't recall the name of - on the PSX2 that was cool was something that looked
like a cross between Tempest and Stun Runner. It was pretty weird to see it, all vector scan style graphics, but it
did look cool, and most important, something different. If anyone remembers what this was called, drop me a line? I 
want to look out for it. 

Not so good stuff.

Red Faction on the PSX2. The PC version was ok.. I didn't honestly see anything that stood out to me when watching
it on the THQ booth that made me go oooh or aaaah. The deformable geometry didn't seem that much in evidence, and
on the PSX2 it was quite frankly pretty horrible. It reminded me of some of the lessor GoldenEye levels. It's a
shame because I was really looking forward to this.

Devil May Cry on the PSX2. I was talking with Cliffy B about GameCube vs PSX2 stuff this year, and he recommended
me to go check out Devil May Cry, so I did. Ok, it's pretty, but it has that god awful camera switching thing going
on that I personally hate. Changing my camera orientation in game always frustrates me as a player.

Other Stuff.

I got to demo Jedi Knight II for Justin Chin at the Lucas Arts booth. That was a cool moment. He seemed to be into 
what we are doing, which is important I think. Trying to continue the whole spirit of the original game is very important
to us. The reaction we got from almost everyone for both SOF2 and JKII was extremely gratifying to be honest, and makes
some of the long nights worth it.
Actually while I am here, I thought I'd address something we saw posted on one of the SOF2 reviews. There were some issues
some people had with the AI on display at the E3 build. I think it's important to quantify where we are at with this right
now, since it's all very preliminary. We have most of the technology done for SOF2, but we are still in the process of 
weaving it together and getting it all to function nicely together. The scripting and AI still needs work in this area, and
what you saw at E3 was more a taster of what we are going for, rather than the end product. Some of the scripting on those
levels was put about a day before E3, and no one was more suprised that it worked than us. So please, do understand it was very
much a work in progress.

I got to meet a couple of people I've never met before which was cool. Cliffy B. is a VERY cool individual, who knows his
stuff. I was most impressed with his knowledge and grasp of the games industry, and other subjects. Much more than a wide
awake suit I think.
Chris Taylor was cool to meet, and so where the guys who did GoldenEye. Nice to hear them have a compliment for us:) And it
was nice to hang with a couple of guys from 3D Realms. Charlie, you are a funny guy, but you should stop hanging out with
LowTax so much. He brings down your IQ don't you know? I know he does that to me:)
Asia Carrera was there, and as Rick Johnson mentioned, it was typical that I recognised her from 20 feet away from the back.
She is just so stunning she makes my teeth fillings ache. Ahhhh, I shouldn't be thinking about that.

Well, that about wraps it up right now. 

I read with interest Brandons comments on Innovation in Gaming, or the lack thereof. I think I'll
talk about that in the Editorial on JakeWorld rather than posting it all here, since it is a sensitive
subject and I don't want to drag either Raven or Activision into it. Look for that later in the week - 
as it is I still have another article for ZDNet to finish first.

If your bored, take a trip around JAKEWORLD!