Login: pdeupree       			Name: 
Plan:
11/11/99

Now that it's official, I can start talking.  We've gone gold and Opposing
Force is a lot of fun.  I played through the entire game a few times and
still enjoy playing it (and Deathmatch is a blast).  I think this is the
first time since the first game I worked on almost 5 years ago that I've
played the entire game all the way through.  We had our office "gold" party
on Monday (there wasn't much we could do while just waiting for the official
"word") and it was a blast.  We went to the Malibu Speedway (a local place
with go-kart tracks, a "drag" strip, and all that mini-golf/arcade action
that's typical of such places.  I may not have won many races, but I did
a good job of blocking people on the slick track.  heh heh.

In the meantime, a lot of us have been catching up on the games we weren't
able to play while finishing up Opposing Force.  I finally finished Final
Fantasy VIII.  I enjoyed this incarnation of the FF series much more than
I enjoyed Final Fantasy VII (I didn't finally finish off VII until I joined
the Anachronox team and Tom offered me a Final Fantasy watch he had sitting
around if I finished the game).  I started playing Omikron and I've got to say
it's an AWESOME game.  Visually I have to say it's one of the most stunning
games I think I've seen yet.  It definately requires a little horsepower to
get the most out of it, but it's worth it.  Various friends of mine are playing
it also and are loving it.  I've also just picked up Sim Theme Park which is
very cool (if your into theme parks, which I am).  Being able to ride the
rides is a very cool feature.

I also have a ton of console games to play that I have barely had a chance
to play (Tony Hawk Pro-Skater and Soul Calibur to name 2 of the most
significant).

Well, until we have anything official to announce about our future
plans, I guess most of us won't have any business related updates in our
plan files.  Sorry.


8/2/99

Working in C++ again in the Half Life game code is very, very cool.  I've
been working on the characters in the game.  I started by putting in the
friendly grunts.  We have a test map Randy talked about in his .plan
update with 3 friendly grunts next to you that you can use, plus 3 in
another room that repel down from the ceiling.

If you use them they follow you and you can enter a room with 12 enemies
and at that point all hell breaks loose.  I don't want to give away too
much, but suffice it to say there are grenades, green goo, and
electricity everywhere (and eventually dead bodies).  Recently I got the
medic in there also which is cool.  The one Randy saw didn't quite have
the code in yet to heal other squad members, but I've got that in now.

Now I'm working on a sub-boss that I won't say anything about, but this
guy should be pretty cool.

On the somewhat personal front, the new Gearbox office we just moved to a
few weeks ago is about 5 minutes from my house as opposed to the 30 minute
drive I had to make to downtown Dallas.  I have to say that I do NOT miss
driving down the Central Expressway every day to get to and from work.