Login: pdeupree       			Name: Patrick Deupree
Plan:
5/15/2000 (2)

Darn DOS to Linux conversion.  I never read my own plan updates on the
web pages, so I didn't notice those damn carriage returns at the end
of each line.  Anyhow, I just ran a perl script to strip that crap off
so hopefully this update is more readable.

5/15/2000

Well, I just got back yesterday from E3.  This has been the first year
that I've really been able to just look around the show, and overall
it was a lot of fun to do so.  I actually got a chance to play some
games I'm looking forward to (most notably Conkers Bad Fur Day and
Chrono Cross).  I also got a chance to wander around and meet up with
a lot of people I used to work with at various places.

Probably the most amazing moment at E3 for everyone at Gearbox, though,
was getting a call on Thursday night from Randy who was at the
Third Interactive Achievement Awards with Landon saying that we had
won the award for PC Action Game of the Year.  We were at Ensemble's
E3 party at the House of Blues at the time, and man, there was a lot
of celebrating going on there since Ensemble had won 3 awards at the
same ceremony including Strategy Game of the Year and Computer Game
of the Year.  That's a shameless plug for the guys that provided
free food and free booze for us Thursday night.  ;)

The web site listing the PC game award recipients is at:
http://www.interactive.org/iaa/winners_pc.html

The cool part about this award is that the games listed by this group
are all good games.  At one point in time a game I worked on 4 years
ago (Monty Python and the Quest for the Holy Grail) was nominated
by some group for Strategy Game of the Year.  To this day I still
have no idea how someone thought that was a fitting category.

For those people that weren't able to go to E3, or weren't able to 
stop by the Havas booth at E3 while we were there, here's an update
on our progress with Opposing Force CTF and the Linux port.  
For both of these we want to wait for the new update to Half-Life
to be released.  We have passed the Linux port to a few places
that have tested it here and there and it seems to work fine.
In addition I've been using the linux server to test the new CTF
multiplayer game so that I don't have to continually bug other
people here at the office to join a game with me.

There's the latest word from the box for now.

2/28/2000

Last week I was looking for some stuff on http://www.imdb.com and
decided to goof around and enter "Deupree" in there.  I figured I'd
see if anyone in the family was ever involved in a film or
something of the sort.  Much to my surprise, I found myself listed.
It turns out that a game I worked on about 4 years ago, "Monty
Python and the Quest for the Holy Grail" is listed in IMDB.  While
jobs such as programmers aren't in the credits, I was also listed as
one of the designers in the credits for the original game.  So there
I am, listed as a "Production Designer" on the game (sharing the list
with Eric Idle).  To be honest it's pretty damn cool to be in a list
of credits including the Monty Python crew since I've been a fan of
their stuff since I was a kid.  While Grail might not have been the
best title as far as gameplay goes, I must admit that I really
enjoyed working on it.  Even after hearing the line "bring out your
dead" over 100 times, I still really enjoy the film.

You never can tell where your name might pop up these days.

