Login: zdim           			Name: Rich Carlson
Plan:

 - The Kronikles Of Zdim -

 -  -  -  -  -  -

10042000

Newstuff:

(from the MOO3/Star Lords website)

Star Lords
 
Yes, before Master of Orion, there was a program that Steve Barcia and SimTex software "pitched" to publishers. This program, Star Lords, can be though of as MOO "Zero." And now it's yours free for the download, courtesy of Steve Barcia and with a courteous nod from the good folks at MicroProse Software. We also wish to thank Tom E. Hughes, Jr. for never deleting anything from his hard drive, Quicksilver Software for arranging to bring this program to you, and to GameSpy for hosting the file that we're sure you're about to download.
 
download Star Lords
http://www.stormtroopers.com/zwr/freegames/starlords.zip
or
http://www.fileplanet.com/index.asp?file=44749 

Stuff You Need to Know About Star Lords
 
Running in genuine MS-DOS mode, this 3.3 megabyte .zip file should be unzipped in its own folder. Run the [start.exe] file to get the game going.  (Seems to run fine in Win98. -Zdim)
 
When you see the look-up copy protection, don't panic. Just press return and you'll skip right past it. It's been disabled.
 
Now, what you're seeing is an unpolished version of Master of Orion. This is before Alan Emrich and Tom Hughes got their hooks into Steve Barcia and starting suggesting like mad ways to simplify the management aspects of the game. So, at the very least, you'll find that the user interface doesn't have a lot of helpful features that eventually made it into MOO.
 
Other than that, you should be able to figure this out on your own. We're not offering any kind of documentation or customer support (so you'd better figure this game out on your own).
 
Enjoy the rich sounds of IBM speaker "beeps and boops," the brilliant VGA graphics, and the charming 320x200 resolution. This is a trip down memory lane, after all.
 
In the end, though, we hope you get an appreciation for the rich history of the Master of Orion game series. Our designers have been involved with it for a long time, dating all the way back to Star Lords. Stick with us, and we'll bring you Master of Orion III: The Fifth 'X' next.
 

Master of Orion III official web site
http://moo3.quicksilver.com/
 
Star Lords official web site
http://moo3.quicksilver.com/starlords.htm
 
MOO History
http://moo3.quicksilver.com/gamehistory.htm
 

Disclaimer of Warranty and Liability
 
This software is being provided free of charge, courtesy of Steve Barcia and the folks at Quicksilver Software, Inc., including Tom "Pack Rat" Hughes and Alan Emrich ("the Parties").
 
The Parties make no warranty, express or implied, with respect to the software or documentation including (but not limited to) implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event will the Parties be liable for loss of profits or goodwill or other indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages resulting from any defect in the software or documentation, even if advised of the possibility of such damages. The Parties shall have no liability for any data stored with this program, including the costs of recovering such data.
 
Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of implied warranties or liability for incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you. This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state.

*XYZZY*

 -  -  -  -  -  -

...17 posts have passed into what was...
