Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Dan Freed
Email: dfreed@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Project Administrator
Project: ???
Last Updated: 03/25/1998 11:40:54 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Daniell ‘Pretender’ Freed

3/24/98

The time has come at long last for the unveiling.  We have 
already made an official announcement about our new title so here 
it is...

We are currently working on a game called HERETIC II.  Yes that’s 
right HERETIC II.  The character from the original Heretic is 
back for more action.  We are using the Quake II engine and it is 
going to be played from the third person perspective. This way 
the character (Corvus is his name currently but we reserve the 
right to change that if need be) can climb up ledges, jump to 
ledges and grab them, climb ropes, and various other really cool 
stuff.

I don’t want to get too specific yet, so just stay tuned.  We 
will be showing the game at E3 so those of you that make it there 
can see it, and it is definitely worth seeing.  Watch for a new 
.plan file for Corvus.  This will contain journals from his 
adventures that took place between the end of Heretic and the 
start of Heretic II.

I’ll keep updating this.  Also I will be adding a Heretic II 
section to my web page at Geocities.  This will contain 
information and the like about the game and story and anything I 
feel like posting there (and anything I am allowed to post).

So keep your eyes open!!! 


3/23/98

Well true believers the time is almost here.  If you stay tuned 
either later today or tomorrow I will have some news about our 
project.  So check back often in the next day or so, if you care
about that sort of thing.  I promise you will not be disappointed.

I have been playing Incubation.  This is a very excellent game.  
I don't want to give free advertising for someone else’s games, 
but this game is very cool. If you haven't tried it out yet, you 
should.  I can hardly wait to see the Wilderness Missions.  Thank 
you for a cool game Blue Byte!  

I've also been playing with Battle Zone.  I think Activision
has once again struck gold.  This game is great.  I was fortunate
enough to be able to help Beta test this game (it helps being 
on the inside track) so I got a free copy of it from the Battle
Zone team.  The combination of resource management and real time
action is really very manageable and fun.  If you like action
and strategy you may want to take a look at this game.

Tonight I am setting out to buy Warhammer: Dark Omen.  I am a big
Warhammer Fantasy Battles and Warhammer 40,000 table top fan.
believe it or not, I really enjoyed playing Shadow of the 
Horned Rat, and I have been looking forward to playing this
new installment in the series.   I’ll give more info on that 
later.  

Book reviews: I am just about to finish Ann Rice’s latest vampire
novel, Pandora.  It is really pretty good.  I really didn’t like
Memnock the Devil, but this is getting back to the basics for her.
She is telling the very personal story of Pandora, Marius’s 
lover. I have to give it a thumbs up.  This is the type of story 
that Ann Rice is very good at.  It is personal and she hasn’t 
tried to blow it up to encompass the entire world.  Rock on!




3/11/98

I made some changes to my web page at geocities.  I now have
a guest book, so make sure you sign it if you stop by (not that
anyone is looking at it much).

I am really pissed at AoE.  I give up on it.  I think I am the
lowest player on Case's AoE ladder.  I have lost four or five 
straight games.  I am going to focus on F22 Raptor and I have a 
copy of Incubation on the way.  Maybe I'll have better luck
playing Incubation (Mplayer supports it in the free section).

Can anyone suggest a good book about Celtic Mythology?  I'm not
talking about fiction.  I am looking for a good reference book.

Work related stuff...well I well uh yeah.  That's about it.

Ok.  I'm going to eat lunch.  Turkey sandwich, yogurt, and 
Pringles.  Mmmm the lunch of champions (oh and lets not forget
the Diet Dr. Pepper).

Quote:
"I'm a pepper!"
-I'll bet you can guess this one...

3/10/98

I hope that you all are keeping up with the seriel story.  It is
getting pretty interesting.  

Things here are progressing along as normal.  We are finishing up
the design of the new project and production is full under way.
I still can't talk about it other than that, so don't even ask 
what it is, yet.  Believe me there will be a lot of information
about it, when we can start talking about it, in everyone's finger
accounts. Everyone is itching to spill the beans, so we won't be
able to hold it back for much longer.

I am definately going to E3, I think I said that already...mmm
repeating myself.  Anyway come and see us there.  I love to talk
to anyone interested in games.

My web page isn't getting very many hits yet, but it is still
pretty basic.  For those that forgot the URL is: 
http://www.geocities.com/Area51/Labyrinth/8364/
Go check it out.  The best section is currently the short story 
area.  I do have the serial story posted there, and I update it
every day or two.

I've been playing a lot of Age of Empires and F22 Raptor.
AoE has frustrated me to no end.  I have no problem defeating
most of the computer opponents that I have battled, but after
two weeks I still can't win in a multiplayer game.  I don't
know what I am doing wrong, but it has really pissed me off,
so I don't think I'm going to play for a while.  F22 Raptor
is a blast to play online.  Novaworld is great.  Anyone that
is a casual sim fan (supposedly the physics aren't that accurate
but who am I to say, it's fun that's all that matters, right!)
will really enjoy the game.  

I've also played a couple of missions in Wing Commander Prophecy.
It is ok.  Although I'm not sure I am going to continue playing 
or not.

I recently also downloaded the demo for Incubation and loved it.
I am very anxious to play the entire game (none of my local
retailers are carrying it :( so I'll need to obtain it through
other means).  This is a very cool game.

As far as books go...

I am almost finished with the Paradise War, by Stephan Lawhead.
This is a great book, especially if you enjoy Celtic Mythology.
Two strong thumbs up.  I hope the other two titles are just as
good. 

I read "A Dozen Black Roses" by Nancy Collins recently.  It was
pretty good.  She faithfully portrayed Sonja Blue and did a good
job merging her world and the White Wolf World of Darkness setting.
By the way I heard that someone is making a Mage : The Ascension
computer game.  That should be interesting to see since the magic
in Mage is completally (or at least mostly) free form.  I don't
have any idea how they are going to portray this in a computer
game.  

Quote of Today:
"Life has no meaning anymore, does it Louis?"
--name the quote if you can (come on this is an easy one)


3/4/98

Fade Away – Part X By Daniell Freed

Falling Into Darkness

"Nightmares walk this earth...nightmares out of our oldest memories. 
And now they're looking for us...."

Her description of the cosmology of the universe somehow made sense 
to me.  It echoed with the distinct ring of truth.  

She was still talking, but her words were hollow.  I couldn’t focus on 
her; I mean, I could see her mouth moving but it was like watching a 
silent movie, only it was in full tecni-color.  My mind swirled, and 
the buildings that we flew past blurred into a muddy mix of drab colors.  
Even she began to blur into the backdrop of the city.  Her features 
elongated into thin tendrils of color.

I turned forward, suddenly remembering that I was the one driving.  
The road stretched out in front of me, unaltered.  The world snapped 
into place around us.  I shook my head, trying to clear the afterimages 
from my mind.

“...understand what I am trying to tell you?” Her voice suddenly cut 
into my hallucination.  I only stared blankly back at her, not really sure 
what she had been talking about.

“Well do you?”

“Uh, yeah,” I said blankly, not really sure what I was 
agreeing to.  I’m afraid that those words where what 
condemned me to what was to follow.

“Good,” she said.  “We have already crossed through the 
first barrier.”

“What,” I said to myself, not intending her to hear.

Her eyebrow lifted slightly, as if asking me something.

“What,” I continued nonchalantly, trying not to sound 
worried, “we did already?”  My efforts to disguise my 
confusion were futile, but she didn’t seem to take any 
notice.

“Yes, and frankly I’m surprised you handled it so 
easily.”  I smiled in a halfhearted attempt to maintain 
my smug appearance.  “Most first timers can’t handle the 
chaos of in-between, but the Darkness will not be so 
easy to cross.”

“The darkness?” I asked her.

“The second Fade, it is the Darkness.”

Her explanation was suddenly cut short as something 
dashed out into the street in front of us.  I can only 
describe it as a something because there is no real 
world comparison for it.  It was like a hulking solid 
shadow that erupted out of the darkness like a dark 
curtain sweeping across the otherwise deserted street.

Deserted.

Yes.

I had to look a second time to be sure, but it was true.  
We were the only vehicle on the street, and there wasn’t 
anyone on the sidewalks.

I swerved hard and slammed on the brakes, afraid of 
being engulfed in the inky black of it.  Julie shrieked 
as the car swerved out of my control.

The cherry red mustang slammed first into the curb, 
jumped up onto the sidewalk, and finally came to a stop 
resting against a telephone pole.  The front quarter 
panel of the car crumpled like old aluminum foil.

I don’t know how, but neither of us had been thrown from 
the car.  A dull ache rose up out of my chest as I 
peeled myself back from the steering wheel.  Julie lay 
sprawled half out of the car.  Blood oozed from the open 
gash on her head.  The windshield of the car had an 
imprint of her head marked in a shattered spider web 
pattern.  

Jumping out of the car, and checked her over.  She was 
dead, at least as far as I could tell.

“Damn,” I muttered.  “Shit damn.  Damn.”   My muttered 
exclamation turned into a tirade of anger.  “Why,” I 
cried at no one in particular.  “What the hell is wrong 
with me.”  I wasn’t thinking about anything, other than 
being stuck here, wherever here was.  The only one that 
knew how to get out of here was dead.  

“DAMN!” I yelled as loud as I could.  

“Where … where did the shadow go?”  Julie asked from the 
car.  Spinning around to look at here, I verified what I 
had heard.  She was definitely alive.


Watch for the next exciting episode of Fade Away, 
written by Matt Pinkston



2/26/98 – b

I decided to put my page on Geocities instead of Pro 
Hosting.  So the URL is now: 
http://www.geocities.com/Area51/Labyrinth/8364/

I’ll leave the other site up for a little while, but not 
for very long…

2/26/98

I just recently made my web page public.  It is 
focused around gaming and computer gaming.  Currently 
most of the content is focused on the World of 
Darkness, but I am planning on posting my AD&D 
journals as well (my AD&D game was started in 1991 
during by tour of duty in the Gulf War and it is still 
going).  I have also posted some of my short stories 
(if you like them let me know).  The URL is: 
http://thor.prohosting.com/~pretnder.  

I expect my web counter to show that everyone has 
visited my site!  By the way, I am planning on posting 
submitted work oriented around the WoD, AD&D, and any 
somewhat tasteful short stories (meaning most anything 
but porn or the like).

I went to a Stan Friedman lecture the other day and I 
was really surprised at how interesting he was.  I am 
a casual UFO follower (and for those that don’t know 
who Stan Friedman is, he is the man that has spent the 
better part of the last 20 or 30 years studying the 
Rosewell incident), so I’m not completely up to date 
on all the stories and theories.  He talked, to some 
extent, about a case study that pretty nearly banished 
all of the few doubts that I still had.  The case 
involved a couple that had been abducted for two hours 
(they didn’t know they had been until a long time 
after the fact). During the course of separate 
hypnotherapy they were going through (for an unrelated 
problem) they both described their abduction exactly 
the same.  The woman in the story, remembered seeing a 
three dimensional star map that she later drew out.  
It was many years later that a researcher was able to 
match the map exactly with a group of stars in our 
local neighborhood (and Earth was on the map).  It is 
theorized that the aliens that abducted her were from 
a star system called Zeta Reticuli (that may be 
spelled wrong).  Anyway, if any of you are interested 
in UFO theory, and haven’t heard of this story, it is 
worth looking into.  Stan wrote a book about it (I 
think it was called the “Zeta Reticuli Incedent” but 
I’m not sure).

Sorry I’m not feeling quote worthy today.

2/24/98

I am going to make a really focused effort to make 
regular updates to my finger file.  I know that in 
the past I have been less than reliable about this, 
but there really hasn’t been much to talk about.  So 
when this happens I will just have to be creative and 
find something to talk about.

Hey, Ken always finds something to capture your 
interests, as does Glenn and Bob and the others.  So 
what the heck, maybe I will too, but probably I will 
just bore you.

I just found out, I will be attending E3 in Atlanta 
coming up in May.  I know that some of you will also 
be there, so make sure you stop by and say hi to me.  
We will be showing at least one new game (maybe two).  
So if you are there make sure you stop by and take a 
look, I promise you will be glad that you did.

My web page has gone live.  It is still in the works, 
but I have some short fiction that I wrote posted up 
there.  I have also posted some things about the 
World of Darkness and about AD&D, since I playing 
both of these games(well the WoD game is due to start 
next week).  Take a look if you like, give me some 
feedback and suggestions if you want.  The URL is 
thor.prohosting.com/~pretnder/

Watch for my installment of the finger story, coming 
up next week.

Quote of the day:
“Do or do not.  There is no try.”
Yoda.  “Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back”