Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Dan Freed
Email: dfreed@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Project Administrator
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 08/25/1998 17:09:04 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Daniell ‘Pretender’ Freed

8/25/98
Alpha has come and gone for Heretic II.  We kind of just blew by it 
and it was done before we hardly knew it was here, but that is the 
way most of Heretic II’s development has been.  This project is going 
along smoother (knock on wood) than any project that I have worked on 
to date.  The team is working very hard to make sure that this game 
will rock!

A bunch of new skins have been implemented for the monsters.  They 
are looking really great.  There is a bunch of new screenshots 
cropping up from a press build of the game that we gave to a few 
individuals recently.  Most of the sites that are posting new shots 
are taking them from that build (normally I take most of the shots 
and hand them out).  The point is that anyone that wants to see the 
game shouldn’t have a problem finding screenshots any longer.

Soldier of Fortune is moving along faster than I thought possible.  
They have several levels build architecturally already and are even 
doing some scripting already.  It shouldn’t be much more than a month 
before an enemy makes a first appearance in the game.  We are playing 
around with some realistic settings in the game, like realistic 
falling damage.  It is a very different feel than most of other fps, 
and it will take some getting used (if we keep it at all), but I 
think the added feeling of realism could go a long way.  

8/11/98

The time has come to update my plan again.  So much is happening that 
I don’t know where to begin.  

I recently made a trip to Ireland to show Heretic II to the European 
press, buyers, and distributors.  It was a huge event that Activision 
UK hosted in order to show all of the upcoming products for the next 
6 - 8 months.  It went very well.  Heretic II was received with wide-
open arms.  As far as I can estimate, everyone loved the product 
across the board.  So, if anyone at the show is reading this, thank 
you for your support and attendance at Activate 98.  You will not be 
disappointed. 

Last week I was at Gen Con, in Milwaukee.  That went extremely well. 
We showed Heretic II, for the first time since E3, to the general 
public.  Everyone was very excited about it.  I am convinced that if 
you are still a doubter about Heretic II, when you play it you will 
be converted.  A demo will be released in October some time.

I want to thank everyone at Gen Con that I talked to, especially the 
guys at AEG and White Wolf.  They know why they are cool, so I don’t 
need to clarify.

SoF is moving right along.  Several levels have been built already, 
and the new monster AI is nearing completion.  Our animators are 
working on weapons right now and some secret stuff with the monsters 
(more about this at a later date).  

Project X is very close to announcement.  I know I have said this 
before, but this time it is true. I am expecting to lock things in at 
the end of August or the first part of September.  When this happens 
we will be making a major announcement about it.

7/20/98

I just wanted to send out my thanks to Comp USA.  I just won their 
most recent trivia contest. For 2nd prize I won a Quantum 3D Obsidian 
S-12 Voodoo 2 card.  Very cool.  The best part is that they sent it 
Fed Ex and I already have it.

7/16/98

On Saturday, August 8th, Jeff Butler, Mark Nelson, and Kevin Long are 
going to be hanging out at the Heretic II/Activision booth at Gen Con.  
All three of these guys have done tons of work in the paper and pencil 
RPG world. Jeff and Mark are most noted probably for their work with 
TSR.  Kevin Long worked as both an artist and a writer for Pallidium 
Games.  So if you want to meet them, talk with them, or have them sign 
anything (OK almost anything) just stop by the booth at Gen Con (that 
is in Milwaukee Wisconsin).

In case you don’t know what Gen Con is, it is basically the E3 for the 
RPG universe.  It is a huge convention hosted by TSR every year in 
Milwaukee.  I think attendance was about 60,000 last year throughout 
the weekend.  

All three of these guys did work for Heretic.  Jeff and Mark have 
actually done tons of work for the game.  Kevin has been working with 
the Soldier of Fortune team for the most part, so he didn’t have the 
opportunity to do as much work but he has done some.  


6/25/98
Update time again.  I know that I haven’t updated this in a while but I 
only do what I can.

Heretic II
We went on a media tour for Heretic II just recently.  It was in New 
York and San Francisco.  I would have made it to both, but I ended up 
in the hospital in NY for a day or so and I missed the SF part.  The 
tour went well, and we are expecting to see some coverage in a lot of 
the trade magazines in the near future.  There was a nice full-page 
spread in Computer Gaming World’s newest issue (August issue I think it 
was).  They also put Heretic in a caption on the cover.  So if your 
interested take a look.  Like I said it is a nice article.  The screen 
shots are from the technology demo, but they are still very nice shots.

Much of the game is falling into place now, as we creep up on our 
deadlines.  Most of the levels have architecture now and lighting, and 
many of them have appropriate textures.  The monsters are popping into 
the game faster than I can keep up sometimes.  I must say that some of 
these latest monsters look incredible.  We have a creature now that can 
jump in and out of the water, and maneuver in either location 
naturally.   

Corvus himself is looking pretty good.  He now has the proper 
animations for swimming underwater and for most of his acrobatics.

Sorry I haven’t updated the Corvus journal in a while.  Things have 
been very busy around here.  I really hope to get to it soon and then 
do a couple of them quickly.

Keep your eyes open for the official Heretic II page to go live soon.  
It will have some very cool stuff on it that will not have been 
available anywhere else before the sites debut.

Soldier of Fortune
Soldier of Fortune is looking really nice as well.  As you all probably 
already know, they are doing hardware only and the effects that are 
being coded right now are taking full advantage of that.  

We are nearly finished with the design for SoF.  Just a few little 
things to go over yet with Eric, Rick, and Scott.  I hope to have that 
done next week. 

Project X
What can I say?  Not much, so I guess I will leave it at that.  I hope that we 
will be announcing something within the next two months, but we will just have 
to wait and see.

6/1/98
The frantic scramble to get ready for E3 is finally over and the show is now 
over as 
well.  For those of you that managed to make it to the show, thanks for stopping 
by and 
looking at Heretic.  For those of you that didn’t make it to the show, you don’t 
know 
what you missed.  Heretic was extremely well received by those that came by.  We 
were 
showing three levels of the game (basically the first hub, Silverspring).  
Corvus has 
his final skin in the game (for now) and he looks so good that Blue’s thought 
that he 
was bump mapped.  We had two monsters in the game; they were the plague Sidhe 
and the 
giant rats.  Both were working pretty well, as was the combat.  I think what 
everyone 
came back remembering about Heretic was the incredible animations that Corvus 
had.  
Everyone should give a round of applause to Brian Shubat, Jeff DeWitt (Corvus’s 
animators), Pat Lipo, and Bob Love (Corvus’s programmers).  They did a great job 
in 
getting him to the state that he is at now.

I will be working on a new journal entry for Corvus this week.  I am hoping that 
I will 
have it finished by the end of the week because I will be leaving for New York 
and San 
Francisco for a Heretic II press tour.  If I don’t finish it in time, I will 
post it 
when I get back.

Soldier of Fortune is making some progress.  E3 slowed down the production a 
little, 
since Eric Biessman went to the show with us, but everything continues to move 
along 
well with the project.  

Project 3 at Raven is nearing preparation for announcement.  It will be maybe a 
month 
or so before the announcement will be made.

What I remember from the show:

A couple of things about the show stand out in my memory.  Some of them are 
relevant 
and some aren’t, but I will tell you all of them.  

I remember having very sore feet, back, and wrists at the end of each day.  
Anyone that 
has spent 10 – 12 hours standing on a concrete floor that has only a layer of 
carpet 
over it will tell you how sore your feet will get.  My hands a wrists were sore 
from 
playing the game from a standing position.

I remember seeing lots of models in tight clothes.  The Lara Croft model was 
there (I 
got my picture with her, being the geek that I am), as were several Metal Gear 
Solid 
models (whom I also struck up a cool pose with) and a Duke Nukem dude (this guy 
was 
really ripped, so I had to get a picture with him if for no other reason than 
perspective).  There was also a Sailer Moon dancer, and countless other models 
sponsoring various products.

I met Gillian Anderson for about 2 seconds as she signed a post card.  I had to 
wait 2 
hours in line for a post card! Can you believe that?  They could have at least 
had her 
sign publicity photos of her.  

I didn’t meet Bret Farve, but Bob Love was gracious enough to stand in line, 
while I 
worked, to get a signed picture of him in all of his glorious action.  

Games that stand out in my mind:

The Half-Life demo looked sweet. They had a ton of cool scripted events going on 
like a 
guy trying to climb up a rope that turns out to be a monster’s tongue.  He was 
swallowed when he reached the top.  This looks like it is going to be a cool 
game.

Drakon, published by Psygnosis, looks like it is going to be cool.  It is a 3rd 
person 
fantasy game, but very different from Heretic. It doesn’t seem to be action 
oriented, 
it seemed to be more geared towards an RPG.  Flying around on a dragon’s back 
and using 
it to fight was very cool to watch.  

Duke Nukem Forever was running as a demo reel.  They had some cool stuff going 
on like 
fighting from the back of a moving truck.

Trespasser is as good as the screen shots make it seem.  I didn’t see any 
gameplay, but 
as a technology demo it looked awesome.

Well if I think of anything else I will mention it later.

5/11/98
Well, someone has spilled the beans already and now as you all 
probably know, one of our new projects is Soldier of Fortune.  
The game is the official licensed product of the Soldier of 
Fortune magazine, so it is going to be awesome.  Watch for more 
information about the game, and you had better knock the dust off 
of that assault rifle you smuggled home from Desert Storm, 
because you are going to need it.

5/7/98 – B

I just wanted to post to let everyone know that I have posted a 
newer version of he Corvus Journal.  It is not a new entry, just 
a cleaned up version of the other two entries.

5/7/98

Heretic II is moving along nicely towards E3.  The character has 
a new skin and it looks pretty darn nice, although we are still 
going to be doing more work on it to make it even better looking.  
The software rendering is working, for the most part. It is still 
a bit slow, but it looks pretty darn nice for running in 
software.  The game is also now running on a V2x00 chip as well.  
There is still some work to be done in supporting most of the 
other 3d cards, but it looks really darn nice on the Thriller 3D. 
I have been repeatedly impressed with these cards.  I hope that 
more games start to support them, whether through Direct X, Open 
GL, or their native drivers.  I have seen a few games that are 
using Glide only, for their 3D acceleration, while this is great 
for the frame rate of the game, they are missing a whole lot of 
other chipsets out there that could run their game.  Anyway, 
Heretic II is moving along nicely.

Project Y and XXX are coming along through the design phase.  One 
is nearing official announcement so keep your ears pealed.  I am 
working on the design doc of this project currently.  When the 
design reaches a level of stability, it will probably be 
announced shortly thereafter.

I’ve been playing Might and Magic VI lately. What a great CRPG.  
If you like CRPG’s you really should give it a try.  I have been 
addicted to it all week.  I’ve also been playing Spec Ops during 
my lunch.  This game isn’t for everyone.  It is almost like a 
flight sim, but instead of a plane, it is a simulation of Army 
Rangers.  It is a lot of fun, just don’t try to run through the 
levels like a Quake 2 level.  I guarantee you will get 
slaughtered doing this.

I’m reading Dune right now.  Yes I know, why haven’t I read it 
before?  It is a long story, but I’m reading it finally.  It is 
an interesting book, but a little slow. I’m also reading through 
the new TSR game Alternity.  I am really impressed so far.  I 
think I can say it is the best product that TSR has released in 
several years.  Maybe the WoC buy out will really do them a lot 
of good.

4/27/98

The Corvus Journal has been updated!  So enjoy.

Project Y. Well you all know the story, I’ll talk when we are good and 
ready to talk.

Heretic II.  There is an official Heretic II web ring now!  Very cool.  
It is great that so many people are excited about the game. I know 
there have been a few of you that are still worried about the 3pp, but 
just give it time, you will come to see the error of your ways.  The 
new character model is in and it looks pretty darn cool.  He has 
several animations already and is well on the way to being ready for 
E3.

Did anyone see Merlin on NBC last night?  It was pretty cool.  I am 
looking forward to seeing the rest of it tonight.  

4/22/98

Well, by know everyone probably already knows about the corporate 
shuffle game that we have been playing that has resulted in the loss of 
a couple of people.  Due to these changes I will be working on all of 
the Raven projects as Project Administrator.  This will keep me busy to 
say the least, but I hope that I will still be able to continue working 
on the Corvus Journals.  My goal is to be as involved with all of the 
projects as I have been with Heretic II.  This may not be possible, 
even I only have so much time, but I am going to give it a shot.  I am 
going to have a meeting with the big wigs around here and go over my 
responsibilities to all of the teams.  This stuff will have to come 
first, before the extra stuff.  Fear not though, if I don’t have time 
to keep the Corvus Journals coming often, I may be able to recruit some 
help from some of the other Heretic II team members to write sections 
of the journal and then I will just act as Editor and add my own 
sections as often as I can.  

Heretic II is moving along.  We are getting a bunch of animations in 
for Corvus, and we are hoping that he will have a skin again, in the 
next couple of days.  We are well on our way to 
having a kick ass E3.

I have been reading the message board at HexenWorld and am very happy 
to see that so many people find the story in a game to be a very 
important part of the game experience.  This has 
been something that I have been concerned about in the past.  It seemed 
for a while that no one cared about the story anymore.  It was all 
about the action and then whatever crappy 
story was tacked on after the fact was fine.  But, I am getting a 
different take on it based 
on what you are all talking about.  Story is no substitute for 
gameplay, but the best games 
all have a great story in them.  Yes, you can have a game without a 
story, but it just isn’t 
as good of a game as it could have been.


4/16/99

Geese, I can’t believe I haven’t updated in six days.  What the heck is 
the matter with me?  I think my only excuse is that I have been writing 
a lot lately and well um even I can only write so much.  As much as I 
would like to be, I will probably never be Stephen King and pump out 
several books a year.  Hell, I would be happy if I could just publish 
one book, but that may happen sooner than I would expect.  As long as I 
stay focused with my writing projects, who knows.

I have been working on the cinematic scripts for Heretic II. The first 
is finished, I’m sure I will be re-writing them several times before we 
give them to any voice actors.  I am also working on the next 
installment of the Corvus journals.  I hope that everyone has read the 
first one already.  I’m doing an interview with Gamespot later today,so 
you can probably expect some kind of preview on their site soon. 

The project is making slow, but reasonable progress right now.  We got 
started with a big bang, but things are settling in finally, a little 
bit at least.

Well, I’ve got to go check on everyone’s progress.  Actually it is just 
an excuse to not write something right now.  Are there any writers out 
there?  You know what it’s like when you just can’t seem to get 
yourself to write a damn thing, no matter how hard you try.  I think 
that sometimes I lack inspiration.  Maybe someone can give me something 
that will inspire me.  Maybe I’ll watch Blade Runner tonight, which 
always inspires me.  If anyone has a better suggestion, please let me 
know.

4/10/98

A blank page.  Nothing, in my mind, is more intimidating; yet somehow I get 
myself to fill them everyday.  

I just wanted to make a quick announcement that I am going to be on All Games 
Network at 3 pm CT today.  They will be interviewing me on thei