Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Jarod Showers
Email: jshowers@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Animator
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 06/10/1999 17:04:09 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
June 10, 1999
Well, I'm back on weapons again.  I just finished up the automatic shotgun and assault rifle.
We had a consultant for Soldier of Fortune Magazine come out and take a look at the game.
He gave us the thumbs up, and shared many stories of his experiences.  Wow!  I am so ignorant
of what really goes on in the world around us.  He has something like three purple hearts and 
a silver star among many other achievments.  We found him very helpfull and an all around 
neat guy.  I hope the pictures turned out that I took of him playing our game.  Well, Dorothy,
tornado season is upon us once again.  Woo hoo!

May 20, 1999	Step Up To The Microphone
*tap* tap* Is this thing on?  So this is a finger.  Greetings world, I’m J-Rex, a new 
breed of animator here at Raven.  I just wanted to take some time and tell you a little 
about my job and myself.  

When I first started here at Raven, the majority of my time was spent perfecting 
weapons in Soldier of Fortune.  I’ve had so much fun working with Scott Rice and 
the rest of the S.O.F. team to get them looking and feeling as realistic as possible.  
We also wanted to give the in-view weapons and "hands" some character, to set them 
apart from other games.  These animations that occur when a player does nothing for 
a long time range from, flipping a knife in the air to, cracking your war-bruised 
knuckles. For even more diversification, each weapon has a secondary-firing mode, 
and many have more than one way to hold; one, two, right, or left handed.  It’s all in 
the details. Many of my co-workers can attest to having seen me "practice" these 
moves with an old Saturn gun I’ve grown quite attached to.  It’s animator nature to 
become your subject for studying.  The problem sometimes is coming back.  

Unfortunately, the only gun name we have rights to use is the Jackhammer, the rest 
carry generic titles.  The Jackhammer is being re-worked due to foreshortening side 
effects.  No matter how cool a gun may look from the side, it has to still look and feel 
right from the back.  Turmanator has come up with a tool to correct many of the 
engine’s perspective problems on weapons in-view, but some guns just aren’t meant 
to be in games.  A good example of one would be the flame-thrower. Know this as 
well, sometimes what you see in movies when guns are fired isn’t realistic.  On some 
rare occasions, artistic license has been taken to really give you that hyper-realistic 
feel. Trust us, this is a good thing.  To see a gun that, in real-life, doesn’t give a lot of 
kick, to be that real in a game just doesn’t feel powerful enough. 

After finishing up on weapons for the time being, a couple of months later, I then 
moved on to the humans.  I never imagined people could be as fun to animate as they 
are in Soldier of Fortune. I had never expected to see so many moves, with such a 
wide variety, in a videogame. The null hierarchy that Eric Turman created in 
Softimage is very easy to use and gives the animator more control over their 
animations.  In my opinion Softimage is the best animation package out there.  Yes, 
the majority of the animations in the game are motion captured moves, but there is so 
much extra work that goes into perfecting them, which I can’t stress enough.  One of 
the main problems I try to work out is the cycle-ability of an animation- how well it 
loops by itself.  It is impossible for the motion-capture actor to land from a jump in 
exactly the same position he was in prior to taking off the ground (no matter how 
many times you try).  Some popping, however, is more forgivable than others, like 
from a walk to a run.  I’ve noticed that, having worked with motion-capture for so 
long, it gives you a certain eye for animations done by hand.  One starts to notice the 
subtle nuances that occur, which, on previous animations, may not have been taken 
into account.  It’s all in the details.

Well that’s a little about what I do from day to day.  I’ve been so busy to start a finger 
in the past, but now that the game is getting closer to being released, I wanted to 
make sure and get my say on what’s been going on with the animation side of things.  
For many of you, this probably is just babbling, and I will get off my soapbox now.  

I’m interested in knowing who’s out there, so drop me some mail and say hi.  I 
want to write one more thing before closing.  When you take a look at the animations 
in the game, know that it has been hard work, great direction, and the attention to 
details that has brought them to the state they’re in, not just that fluffy, highly praised 
word called motion-capture.  Otherwise I’d be out of a job :)