Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: tim.gift     Plan Last Modified: 01/26/1999 17:28:44 PST

Real Name: Tim Gift
Nickname: Slacker
Job: Director/Lead
Project: Starsiege Tribes

1.26.99

Hmm, I've just heard a rumor that we delayed the OpenGL
patch.  Not sure where that came from, but I don't
remember mentioning anything about delays. In fact, the
OpenGL patch seems to be coming along pretty well. Just
down to the final optimizations, though it is annoying
having to tweak the game for each OpenGL card out
there, it's all a part of the normal process. Dave's
installed the G200 and is testing that today. As we
hear back from NVidia, we'll continue working with them
on getting all the performance we can out of their
card.  Soon as it runs reasonably, we'll release a beta
version to get some feedback.


1.25.99

I'll talk about OpenGL since that seems to always be on
people's mind. Dave Moore is the one working on our
OpenGL driver. We are using the TNT card as our testbed
and basically have it running, but we are running into
some serious performance issues with their OpenGL
driver. The main problem is the rate at which the
OpenGL driver downloads textures to the card. When
playing indoors, TRIBES has a small texture set, and
the driver and card run flawlessly, but as soon as you
go outdoors, we start to encounter some bad pauses.
When outdoors, TRIBES generates a large number of
composite textures to cover the lower detail terrain
poly's in the distance. This is all part of the terrain
detail management system. The composite textures change
frequently as you move around on the terrain, and are
constantly being rebuilt and downloaded to the driver.
All of this management was optimized for Glide and our
software driver. Unfortunately, with OpenGL, we have
much less control over how textures get downloaded to
the hardware. This is pretty much left up to the OpenGL
driver. There were a few things we were able to do to
reduce our download rate, which helped considerably. We
also talked briefly to NVidia and they informed us that
they had improved their texture management in the
latest beta driver. We downloaded and tested this
driver, and it did made a huge difference. It still
doesn't get rid of all the pauses, but definitely much
better. We are re-grouping to see what's next. That the
TNT, a 2xAGP card, should download textures slower than
a Voodoo I card doesn't seem very likely, the card
should be able to handle what we're doing. This is the
annoying thing about using a higher level rendering
interface: you end up at the mercy of the people
writing the low level drivers, who usually have
completely different idea's on what to optimize.