Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: tim.gift     Plan Last Modified: 02/10/2000 11:17:50 PST

Real Name: Tim Gift
Nickname: Slacker
Job: Programmer/Designer
Project: Starsiege TRIBES

2.10.00

Hmm... well I can't say this has been the most
productive past few weeks. Finished the CGDC
article and worked a few other misc. things, but
the vehicle class has been my main focus. 

So far on the vehicles:

- Rigid body dynamics.

- Wheel suspension, including springs, shock
absorbers and anti-sway bars.

- Engine & brake torque.

- Longitudinal & lateral slip forces with basic
static & kinetic friction.

- Animations: wheels rotate, suspension goes up and
down, etc.

- Basic client side prediction

Left to do:

- A few issues to resolve: some problems with the
frictional forces, and maybe a problem with the
suspension (does some weird things occasionally).

- More accurate vehicle body collision, I'm currently
just using a box.  Neal, the artist working on the
scout, just added in a convex collision hull for the
body. I'll start using that next week.

- Mounting players on to vehicles.

- Test and resolve any issues with the other ground
vehicles such as the assault vehicle, which
has 6 wheels.

- Wrap up client side prediction

- Other misc. details like plugging in particle
emitters, sounds, brake lights, etc.

At this point you can drive around in the scout
vehicle. It has four wheel drive and independent
suspension. It handles pretty well, though at high
speeds it tends to under-steer. Have to be a little
careful going fast on the uneven ground or you can end
up upside down. Vehicles are going to be pretty fun :)

All the engine, suspension and tire parameters are
specified in the datablock. The number of wheels, which
ones steer, and suspension travel is all extracted from
the shape file. It should be fairly easy for mod
authors to build and customize new vehicles.

Tim




