User Id: mikew                          Name: Mike Wilson
New mail has arrived.
*** This .plan file should always be construed as the absolute truth and fully representative ***
*** Of the opinions of Gathering of Developers and all other companies "in the know" ***

Whatever.

Well, here it is.  I've broken down.  I avoided the dreaded .plan file from its inception at id Software
by John Carmack as a method of keeping people informed about Quake development, on through Ion Storm and 
the advent of the 'dear diary' and 'screw everybody' forum that it has become over the last couple of years.

Alas, I have given in on this fine August day because I have to tell anyone who will listen how excited we
at the Gathering are to have shipped our very first title to retail this week.  Epic's Jazz Jackrabbit2, the best 
platform game ever made for the PC, is now on shelves nationwide.  With a real, live Gathering of Developers
logo on the box.  (small and only on the back, of course, like a publisher ought to be)  It's hard to believe 
it's only been 8 months since we announced the company... seems like 8 years to us.

For those who have not been following the developments here at The Gathering, things are going gangbusters here
and we have 3 fantastic games for this fall.  Jazz2, (not a single review anywhere less than 4 out of 5 stars) 
Railroad Tycoon2, E3's Best Non-Combat Simulation, and FLY! from Terminal Reality, which was the title that RRT2
edged out to win that Best Simulation category.  All 3 titles represent exactly the types of games and developers
that we are set up to work with... perfect execution of game design and technology by Professional Game Development
Artists, no matter what the genre.

Anyhow, in keeping with the spirit of things around here, I'd like to send a big F-U out to all the naysayers who
said we'd never get funded, or that we'd never get our games on the shelves.  We've still got some fundraising to do
(it never ends, even with the largest publishers) but we've got offices now, a full management team, international 
distribution partners, about 10 fantastic games under development, and our first title on the shelves at retail in 
generous quantities.  Conversely, I'd like to send sincerest thanks to the many, many people in the Important communities...
development, editorial, retail, online, and even the financial community that have helped us along the way to get to 
this point.  Especially the 6 very brave development companies that have endured the bloodbaths that insued with their 
current/past publishers after their announced affiliation with us.  

For those of you who have quietly watched to see what would happen with this effort, please check Jazz2 out on Epic's
site (www.jazzjackrabbit.com) and go pick up a copy in your favorite software store.  It's only $29.99 and it's the 
most fun you're going to have on your PC at that price.  And, even if you are too cool to play a 2D game these days,
pick one up for your brother, sister, mom, me, whomever.  They will thank you, and you'll be doing the biggest favor 
you can do for Gathering of Developers as the publishing world watches us 'invade' the territory that they never owned.

I'm going to go have a beer now.

Mike