*** Gathering of Developer Finger Server

User name: mikew
Plan modified: Fri Apr 30 14:47:46 1999

Just got back from a fun trip to L.A.  E3, or g.o.d.3, is going to be a blast.

Wanted to clear a thing to 2 up and give a heads up on some other things.

First:Max Payne

Gene Simmons has no contractual rights to Max Payne for film.  I let CGW know before they 
this story (when I first heard that he said that to a CGW reporter in Finland).  Maybe 
it was too late to change it, or maybe CGW just thought it was too funny to take out, true
or not.  The fact is that Gene has a great interest in the game and had the whole Remedy
crew out as VIP's at their concert in Finland.  Since he also has some film company relation-
ships (he's gotten 2 major films greenlit in 6 months), he has been acting as a sort of agent
on our behalf only to his select relationships.  Who knows what will come of it... there are
quite a few people interested in Max Payne and Nocturne in Hollywood. 

CGW will be clearing up a few other incorrect observations from their E3 issue in
the July issue, like the statement that 3DRealms isn't fully committed to The Gathering due
to the fact that GT has Duke Nukem Forever.  (GT obviously had those rights long before we
existed).  They also didn't mention that Max Payne is co-developed by 3DR.

Second:

Back to the idiocy surrounding the Colorado coverage... Mark Ranel of TRI and I did an 
interview with CNN while we were in L.A.  It seems that CNN intends to take a critical view
of all the ridiculous finger pointing going on, or at least tell both sides of the story.  Who
knows, they may completely turn it around in editing and make it another games bashing story,
but they seemed genuinely interested in hearing from 'the other side.'  Since the people at
id or 3Drealms aren't at liberty to speak on the topic due to legal reasons, and that we know
no one from a large public company is likely to speak up, Mark and I decided to attempt to speak
on behalf of our peers.  Our PR people don't like it, and like I said, it could always get turned
against us, but someone has to speak up.  There is definitely a war being waged against our 
industry that could affect us all, and I don't know of many wars that have been won by not defending
ourselves.  Our industry is chock full of good, honest, very hard working people, and I hate that
the general public is being led to believe otherwise.

Anyhow, the story airs on CNN Newsstand tonight at 7pm and 10pm Pacific Time, I think.

Also, for those in the L.A. area or those planning to attend E3 this year, you can check out
the ridiculousness we'll be putting on there at www.godgames.com/e3.  Like I said, it's going
to be a blast.








*** Follow the path of the righteous!
*** Please report problems to noel@godgames.com