Login: mikew                           Name: Mike Wilson                             
No project.
Plan:
Hello from the Church.  Had to come out of my .plan coma to point out the most
amazing month in The Gathering's history... we are FIRED UP in the Church.

For those not keeping score... in the past 30 days we have shipped BW1, BW2,
4x4 EVO for PC, Mac, and DC, RUNE(sleeper hit of the DECADE), and Heavy Metal:FAKK2
for the Mac.  BIG props to Terminal Reality, Human Head, and Ritual/Contraband on turning
in such solid work.  In another 3 weeks, we'll ship RUNE for the Mac, Kingdom Under Fire,
and BW3.  I'd put the quality of these titles up against ANY publishing house's lineup
in the world. 

On Deck Interactive, our label for up-and-comer Indie developers, just shipped it's first
titles as well... Bugdom (PC port of Pangea's award winning arcade game for the Mac), Soul
Ride (snowboarding game from Slingshot), and KISS Pinball from Wildfire (developers of 3D
Realms' Balls Of Steel).  So ODI is off to a good start, and Serious Sam is on the way!

Our model of attracting and working with the best independent game developers
in the world is definitely paying off, and we as a company have really grown up.  I
know this must seem like shameless self-pimpage... and I guess it is.  But I am so
freaking proud of the people I work with I am just about to burst into gibs.

And... to cap it all off... we have an amazing new website that our boys have been
crankin on for awhile now... and it just went live.  Check it out - http://www.godgames.com - 
and nose around to see how this little Gathering of Developers experiment has matured.  We're 
definitely on the way to where we want to be, and it is safe to say that a truly viable alternative
has been forged for independent game developers (dying breed that they seem to be at times)   
to bring their babies to all you gamers without having to sell their souls (or their IP rights). 

I'll stop rambling now... but believe me, it's only going to get better. 

http://www.godgames.com
No public key.