Login: mikew                           Name: Mike Wilson                             
No project.
Plan:
Today marks the 3rd anniversary of my first paycheck from Gathering of Developers/Godgames.  March 15, 1998 is when Ion Storm stopped paying me.  Or Eidos, I guess if you want to get technical.

On this anniversary, I think that it's time to get something off my chest once and for all, and to clear up alot of confusion and controversy.

Basically, I think it's time to let Eidos off the hook for a joke that has gone on a bit longer than we ever intended for it to.  Ion Storm was, indeed, a joke.  A very expensive one, but like I said, we never really intended for it to go on as long as it did.  

It all started when I was still at id, and Activision "beat out" Eidos on a bid to take over publishing for the original Quake mission packs, and eventually all id games.  Eidos's CEO at the time (still?  i haven't been keeping up), Mike McGarvey was VERY upset with me that I wouldn't let him outbid Activision, even though I had set a clear deadline for bids and he had missed it, supposedly because he was at Comdex or I didn't return his call or whatever.

At any rate... he was pissed.  And he let me know it.  I thought this was a bit much for a dark horse publisher at the time (Tomb Raider was still new) talking to the leading indie developer in the world at the time (Quake was still new).

So, I decided to play a bit of a joke.  I knew that John Romero and Tom Hall were looking for money from a number of publishers, and that none of the "real" publishers were really biting.  So, I decided to "make it up to" McGarvey by hooking him up with the "next big thing" from the "creator of Quake".  :)

I never had any idea how far it would go.  

Next thing I know, Romero and his gang of merry men were talking eight figure numbers for a publishing deal covering several games that did not yet exist from a developer that did not yet exist.  All based on John and Tom's id experience.  Man!  I had to see if a third idster, yours truly, could bump up the value even more!  It wasn't going to be easy... John and Tom had already brought in a couple of guys from 7th Level (I really, really thought this would give it away, but it didn't) and I thought surely the waters had been muddied.

Well... the rest is history.  I left id, became CEO of Ion, and one year and about 18 million dollars later, the joke was STILL GOING.  No games, no milestones... NOTHING!  And they just kept paying!  For laughs, we added a 4th team down in Austin, and even started development on Daikatana 2 when Daikatana one was... well, you know.  AND THEY JUST KEPT PAYING.  

Eventually, I started get a little nervous that something had gone awry.  We just kept giving them the most obvious clues in the world, and they just WOULD NOT STOP PAYING US.  We paid ourselves HUGE salaries.  We moved into the PENTHOUSE floor in a SKYSCRAPER in Dallas.  COME ON!  We trademarked SUCK IT DOWN and used it in ads!  We put out an ad that said John was going to make you his bitch... SUCK IT DOWN!  AND THEY JUST KEPT PAYING.  

We tried everything.  We "acquired" Dominion, for Christ's sake.  We renamed it Dominion:Storm just because the ion at the end before Storm was funny. Still nothing.  THEY JUST KEPT PAYING.  

Eventually, I couldn't take it anymore.  I started to think that the joke was actually on me and that game publishers made so much freaking money that we couldn't possibly spend anything that would even affect them.  So, I went on to start a game publisher.  

Even then, from more than a mile away... I was fascinated by Eidos's refusal to stop paying.  I got with John, Tom and the boys and orchestrated this great 'investigative' Dallas Observer article.  Porter posted his entire email file on the network 'accidentally'.  In those emails, we openly spoke about the farce and ridiculed Eidos.  STILL NOTHING. 

Then they released Dominion:Storm Over Gift3 (what the hell is THAT???) and it tanked immediately.  STILL NOTHING.  I wondered if Eidos was really counting on Daikatana to recover the 25 mil or so they were up to... so we removed the entire team, as a 'walkout'.  (I still grin when I think of the "Ion 8"  And they just continued to buy it... literally... unbelievable.)

After about another year of keeping the place afloat at 800k a month or so, I really thought they jig was up when they canned Porter and O'Flaherty.  But I was wrong... I think those guys just got bored with the joke, or creeped out like me.  Even Killcreek, another MAJOR clue John threw in their path,  eventually gave up on them figuring it out and moved on.  I mean, at some point it becomes like telling the joke to yourself, if no one on the outside gets it.

I'm still not sure who the joke was on... Ion keeps getting paid, and I work for Take Two now... but at any rate, it feels GREAT to get all this off my chest.  

Thanks to everyone who helped with the joke, and I apologize to those who may have actually experienced emotional breakdowns by watching the whole thing go on for so long, either thinking it was real, or getting sick like I did that Eidos never seemed to figure it out.

The good news is, that eventually, Tom and his team actually started work on Anachronox (there is only so much porn out there, it turns out), and it's looking fantastic.  Hopefully the joke will hold up long enough to get that baby out there. 

And surely Deus Ex is some consolation for having to watch the whole thing happen.  Warren's fine team in Austin would have had to split up had it not been for Eidos's unbelievable appetite for spending and our tireless efforts to see if it would ever run out.

At any rate, thanks for the memories, and to all my Ion comrades, ex and current, here's to getting paid.  Cheers, and happy April 1.  


No public key.
