
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: romero
Plan modified: Sun Jun 14 01:39:24 1998




Plan File





Current project: Daikatana
   June 14, 1998
Damn, I'm overrated.  I'm an overrated geek, not a God.  An
overrated rock star AND geek AND not God.  Thanks for clearing that up, GameCenter!



I don't remember telling everyone what the single-player gameplay was going to be like in
Quake 2.  Too bad GameCenterLoaf didn't like Quake 2; I thought it was a pretty
badass game.  And, hey, there's like hundreds of thousands of people playing it, too.
  If too many people are playing your game, it's overrated.  Like me.



And Daikatana's been under development for an entire 14 months now.  That's a
looooooooooong time to people with a 6-month memory.  What's the going development
cycle for a 3D shooter these days?  Let's break it down:




Game
Time in Months


Quake
18


Quake 2
18


Duke 3D
30


Dark Forces
30


Jedi Knight
30


Shadow Warrior
36


Blood
36


Unreal
36


<Achoo!>  Am I dead yet?



Rick Johnson is dead on correct.  :)




   June 8, 1998
An Apple II legend, Jim Nitchals, died last
Friday night of a brain hemorrhage.  I was SO looking forward to finally meeting him
at the massive Apple II party in August.  He will be well remembered. Follow the
links:



http://www.dadgum.com/glist/updates.html



http://pw2.netcom.com/~nitchals/about.html



http://www.wired.com/news/news/culture/story/12832.html



http://www.ogr.com/dailynews/9806/10apple.html


   May 5,, 1998
And to think it was only 6 short years ago
when Wolfenstein 3D was first unleashed upon the world...



Happy Birthday Wolfy!


   April 17, 1998
Thanks Kevin. Yes, we all know how difficult
it is to get a name past the trademark office. As for the choice of name and everything
else that's Dominion, that's completely Todd Porter's game so you can all tell Todd how
cool his latest game is by emailing him at todd@ionstorm.com. Check out the Dominion Demo
on our site at www.ionstorm.com! As for what I am personally working on, the game is
Daikatana. :)


   April 16, 1998
I've been agonizing about how to describe the
intense feelings within my husk, but there's no nice way of expressing my opinion of the
importance of other company's game titles.



"Let he who is without sin cast the first stone." That's what I thought when I
read both Scott and Kevin's .plans. Scott says Dominion's subtitle is bad then remembers
his cornucopia of bad game titles and exposes a couple of them.



Good thing Quake 2 wasn't named "Wor" like id originally planned. The main
character could have been the Wizard of Wor (starring Sylvester Stallone). Created by the
Wizards of id. Quake III is a good name -- I just can't wait to see where they put that
third nail.



Coffin Boppin'!!



And all of this stemmed from an argument that had nothing to do with name quality, but
rather series integrity giving in to marketing greed. 






   March 26, 1998
Heretic II. Uh, thanks guys.



Heretic, Hexen and Hecatomb would have been the artistically "right" way to
preserve the scope and story of the Trilogy of the Serpent Riders. After i left, Hecatomb
became Hexen II and series integrity went out the window.



<sigh>



The sentence that was originally here was rewritten about 10 times because i'm trying to
be Politically Correct in stating my feelings for how the whole series lost its focus and
instead is just using its established brandname to sell copies.




