
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: romero
Plan modified: Sun Feb 28 19:47:40 1999




Plan File





Current project: Daikatana
   February 28, 1999
The modem interpolation bug was fixed just a couple hours ago.  We're
finishing off some remaining polish and sending it off to MPlayer for their final testing
phase.  We will be releasing the demo in the Practice Area of MPlayer first (limited
release), then into the Tournament Area when Practice is through with their testing.
  When it gets into the Tournament Area, everyone can download it and try it out.
About a month or so later, we will put up the Internet Deathmatch Demo
release so you can play over LAN as well and start up your own servers.  Just
remember: this demo is only for the first episode of Daikatana's deathmatch.  Each of
the remaining 3 episodes have their own different deathmatch feel because the weapons are
all different.  It's like 4 deathmatch games in one.  (And one single-player
game in one. :)
We've been working hard on getting this demo together and I hope everyone
likes it.  Sure, it's taken us a little longer to get polished, but it will be worth
the wait.  No use releasing a shab demo.
   February 4, 1999
(Oops, fixed that link...)
I'm a real big guitar-music nut and just wanted to tell y'all how badass
James Grote's "Quantum Rage: Songs for Deathmatch" is -- you don't even need to
play this CD while deathmatching; I listen to it all the time in my car.  Get this CD
if you are into metal or into doomy-melodic guitar riffs!  Samples are available on
his site....check 'em out.
http://www.gigadeth.com
Also, one of the cool features of Daikatana Deathmatch is that, depending on
the number of maxplayers your server is set for, the map can open up new areas or keep
them closed off.  If you want your DM map to be scalable for 1-4 players, you just
put in a special wall that blocks off access to the other areas if maxplayers = 4.  
Likewise for the other maxplayer levels (8, 16 and 32).  This allows DM mappers to
create one single map that is good for 2 players to 32 players!  You'll see this
feature in our Daikatana Deathmatch Demo...
   January 26, 1999
GameStream knows things...
http://www.gamestream.net/indexfix.cfm?NewsID=410
(Internet Explorer only, I'm told)
   December 15, 1998
Today's the 7th birthday of id Software's second Keen creation, 
Commander Keen: Goodbye, Galaxy!.   
   December 14, 1998
Today's the 8th birthday of id Software's very first game,  Commander
Keen: Invasion of the Vorticons.   
   October 30, 1998
Congratulations to the entire SiN team over at Ritual!  Your first full
game, now gone gold -- it was tough, wasn't it?  Heh heh.  
I can't wait to play SiN, it totally kicks ass! 
   August 28, 1998
Reports of my death are greatly exaggerated.  I take full responsibility
for last night's confusion -- maybe I shouldn't have taken that morbid picture for Texas
Monthly magazine, because someone apparently called the Dallas PD and heard that a John
Romero got shot last night.  Coupled with the actual picture, you have yourself a
news story (although a false one).
I was out of touch with people up here at Ion for a while last night, so they
couldn't confirm nor deny the rumors, so Adrenaline Vault ran the story and got the
"scoop" first.  Too bad it was incorrect, eh?  Well, don't blame them
-- I got a call from their writer who told me where and how he got his information and I
would have run the story myself, so don't slam on them, they were only doing their job.
And for all of you who really did care and got upset:  I love you all!
For the Avault story, go here: http://www.avault.com/news/news_temp.asp?story=8281998-14324
   August 25, 1998
Good luck, Dr. Sleep and Xatrix.  The stop was short but fun while it
lasted.
Now to find a fast monster of a map designer.  Anyone have any leads,
send 'em my way: romero@ionstorm.com.  
Thanks. 
   July 9, 1998
It was sad news indeed to hear that Danielle Berry died recently.  
Danielle was going to attend my Apple II Reunion Party, along with Jim Nitchals, who died
recently as well.  This party is becoming dangerous, you think?
Oh yeah, the name "id Software" was spelled "ID" in the
beginning, then "Id Software" during Wolf3D, then "id Software" from
DOOM onwards.
   June 26, 1998
I can't BELIEVE that someone found out that Carmack and I made up!  What
the hell, are there no more secrets left?  Has all this .plan file madness destroyed
everyone's ability to keep information to themselves?!
Well I never!  I just won't be paying him anymore special visits from
now on!  ;P
   June 23, 1998
Happy Birthday Quake, even if I'm late by one day. :)
Hoo boy, do I remember developing that title.  All I gotta say is
"The War Room". 
   June 19, 1998
I'm gonna be having a massive Apple II Reunion Party here in August and there
are still a few programmers I want to invite that have eluded my investigations.  If
anyone out there has information on their whereabouts, phone numbers or email addresses,
shoot 'em my way.  Thanks!

David Schroeder - Dino Eggs, Crisis Mountain
Tony or Benny (Aik Beng) Ngo - Drol, Bandits
Paul Stephenson - Aztec, Swashbuckler
Tony Suzuki - Alien Rain, Alien Typhoon, Star Blazer
Larry Miller (Sirius)