*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: romero
Plan modified: Mon Aug 02 17:18:22 1999




Plan File





Current project: Daikatana
   August 2, 1999
Alright, before all of the news sites start going nutty with this
information, I just want to thank Steve Ash, my lead programmer, for all the excellent
work he's put in on Daikatana.  We're past the "adding tech" stage and are
working on finishing up the game, so Steve decided to move on and get back to California
where he can actually USE his Ducati motorcycle on the winding mountain roads instead of
watching his tires melt on the hot Dallas pavement.  Heh.  Good luck Steve, and
thanks for everything. :)
The new lead programmer on Daikatana is Shawn Green, whom I have known for
eight years or so and has been doing a great job on Daikatana since its inception.
   July 30, 1999
Okay, all you denizens of Dallas... I'm looking for on-site beta-testers for
Daikatana for the month of August.  You will be rewarded for your efforts with
T-shirts, games and hardware!  Just send your resume to dktest@ionstorm.com and we'll see if you're good
enough to make it in.
   July 12, 1999
I just *LOVE* it when people make fun of me!!!  Check this out:
http://www.hulka.com/img/haircare/haircare.htm
Daikatana-wise, everyone is cranking along in their various sections: art,
coding, mapping.  Got a couple of new mappers on the team: Luke "weasl"
Whiteside and Christian "guf" Cummings.  Both these guys are *hardcore*
mappers, staying up here at Ion until the wee hours of the morning, then they get up a few
hours later to do it all over again. :)  
   May 5, 1999
Happy Birthday Wolfie!  Seven long years ago, the shareware version of
Wolfenstein 3-D was uploaded to Software Creations BBS.  It was very late at night
(in fact, i think it was 5am) and all our exhaustive testing was done, so we uploaded the
final ZIP file and crashed.  Scott Miller and Bobby Prince were there for the
shareware upload since they were just as excited about Wolfie as everyone else.  
We were running id out of a 1-bedroom loft apartment in Mesquite (La Prada
Club) and the company had a grand total of 6 employees: Tom Hall, John Carmack, Adrian
Carmack, Jay Wilbur, Kevin Cloud and myself.   The next couple months were spent
finishing the last 3 episodes (6 in total) and Tom, Kevin and I wrote the Wolfenstein 3-D
Hint Book using NeXT hardware for layout.  That was the first and only hint book id
would ever write.  Things got *very* busy after that point...
   March 18, 1999
Oh my god Andrew, I'm gonna have to DESTROY YOU!!!!  Heh heh... great
plan update and i agree with you... there's too much sniping out there in .plan land, the
press, and especially those damned messageboards!  Really, we're all
making games because they're FUN -- not because it's great to be deeply immersed in the
politics of a company, providing grist for the rumor mill and plotting the demise of your
fellow co-worker.  It's all about fun stuff.  You know: killing things with
large weapons.  :)
When i did that interview, i don't believe i was that destructive in
explaining the demo.  I was telling the guy that most of what you see in the demo was
done by the new team.  The E1DM1 map is originally created, the basic textures are
Andy Changs and the new special textures are from the new team.  The E1DM2 map was
constructed from pieces of Dabug's DM map with lots more work done on it.  All the
powerups, weapons, sound effects, multiplayer stuff, menu, etc etc etc was all done by the
new team from scratch or they tweaked old stuff.  They did a great job in a very
short amount of time and i'm very proud of these guys.  It's fun working with a
hardcore team.
And by the way, Andrew, you did some really great work while you were here.
  Thanks! :)
   March 14, 1999
Late night Daikatana demoing session here at Ion Storm with Blue, Redwood,
Loonyboi and the Telefragged guys -- we're having a blast!   Lots of screaming,
blood and gibs bouncing happily off the walls...
In one month, we will be releasing the Internet/LAN version of Daikatana so
everyone can bring it to your LAN parties.
   March 10, 1999
First it was on, then it was off -- The Daikatana Deathmatch Tournament at
Extreme Annihilation this coming weekend.  We've been really busy finishing up the
MPlayer Tournament version and didn't think we would have enough time to get the systems
all set up, etc.
The Extreme Annihilation team has been severely flooded with angry emails
about the cancellation of the Daikatana Tournament; apparently, many people are going to
Extreme Annihilation JUST TO SEE Daikatana!  Well, thank you guys very much for your
interest in our game!
Well, you guys win.  The EA Daikatana Deathmatch Tournament IS BACK ON
at this weekend's CPL event!  :) 
   February 28, 1999
The modem interpolation bug was fixed just a couple hours ago.  We're
finishing off some remaining polish and sending it off to MPlayer for their final testing
phase.  We will be releasing the demo in the Practice Area of MPlayer first (limited
release), then into the Tournament Area when Practice is through with their testing.
  When it gets into the Tournament Area, everyone can download it and try it out.
About a month or so later, we will put up the Internet Deathmatch Demo
release so you can play over LAN as well and start up your own servers.  Just
remember: this demo is only for the first episode of Daikatana's deathmatch.  Each of
the remaining 3 episodes have their own different deathmatch feel because the weapons are
all different.  It's like 4 deathmatch games in one.  (And one single-player
game in one. :)
We've been working hard on getting this demo together and I hope everyone
likes it.  Sure, it's taken us a little longer to get polished, but it will be worth
the wait.  No use releasing a shab demo.
   February 4, 1999
(Oops, fixed that link...)
I'm a real big guitar-music nut and just wanted to tell y'all how badass
James Grote's "Quantum Rage: Songs for Deathmatch" is -- you don't even need to
play this CD while deathmatching; I listen to it all the time in my car.  Get this CD
if you are into metal or into doomy-melodic guitar riffs!  Samples are available on
his site....check 'em out.
http://www.gigadeth.com
Also, one of the cool features of Daikatana Deathmatch is that, depending on
the number of maxplayers your server is set for, the map can open up new areas or keep
them closed off.  If you want your DM map to be scalable for 1-4 players, you just
put in a special wall that blocks off access to the other areas if maxplayers = 4.  
Likewise for the other maxplayer levels (8, 16 and 32).  This allows DM mappers to
create one single map that is good for 2 players to 32 players!  You'll see this
feature in our Daikatana Deathmatch Demo...
   January 26, 1999
GameStream knows things...
http://www.gamestream.net/indexfix.cfm?NewsID=410
(Internet Explorer only, I'm told)
   December 15, 1998
Today's the 7th birthday of id Software's second Keen creation, 
Commander Keen: Goodbye, Galaxy!.   
   December 14, 1998
Today's the 8th birthday of id Software's very first game,  Commander
Keen: Invasion of the Vorticons.   
   October 30, 1998
Congratulations to the entire SiN team over at Ritual!  Your first full
game, now gone gold -- it was tough, wasn't it?  Heh heh.  
I can't wait to play SiN, it totally kicks ass! 
   August 28, 1998
Reports of my death are greatly exaggerated.  I take full responsibility
for last night's confusion -- maybe I shouldn't have taken that morbid picture for Texas
Monthly magazine, because someone apparently called the Dallas PD and heard that a John
Romero got shot last night.  Coupled with the actual picture, you have yourself a
news story (although a false one).
I was out of touch with people up here at Ion for a while last night, so they
couldn't confirm nor deny the rumors, so Adrenaline Vault ran the story and got the
"scoop" first.  Too bad it was incorrect, eh?  Well, don't blame them
-- I got a call from their writer who told me where and how he got his information and I
would have run the story myself, so don't slam on them, they were only doing their job.
And for all of you who really did care and got upset:  I love you all!
For the Avault story, go here: http://www.avault.com/news/news_temp.asp?story=8281998-14324
   August 25, 1998
Good luck, Dr. Sleep and Xatrix.  The stop was short but fun while it
lasted.
Now to find a fast monster of a map designer.  Anyone have any leads,
send 'em my way: romero@ionstorm.com.  
Thanks. 
   July 9, 1998
It was sad news indeed to hear that Danielle Berry died recently.  
Danielle was going to attend my Apple II Reunion Party, along with Jim Nitchals, who died
recently as well.  This party is becoming dangerous, you think?
Oh yeah, the name "id Software" was spelled "ID" in the
beginning, then "Id Software" during Wolf3D, then "id Software" from
DOOM onwards.
   June 26, 1998
I can't BELIEVE that someone found out that Carmack and I made up!  What
the hell, are there no more secrets left?  Has all this .plan file madness destroyed
everyone's ability to keep information to themselves?!
Well I never!  I just won't be paying him anymore special visits from
now on!  ;P
   June 23, 1998
Happy Birthday Quake, even if I'm late by one day. :)
Hoo boy, do I remember developing that title.  All I gotta say is
"The War Room". 
   June 19, 1998
I'm gonna be having a massive Apple II Reunion Party here in August and there
are still a few programmers I want to invite that have eluded my investigations.  If
anyone out there has information on their whereabouts, phone numbers or email addresses,
shoot 'em my way.  Thanks!

David Schroeder - Dino Eggs, Crisis Mountain
Tony or Benny (Aik Beng) Ngo - Drol, Bandits
Paul Stephenson - Aztec, Swashbuckler
Tony Suzuki - Alien Rain, Alien Typhoon, Star Blazer
Larry Miller (Sirius) - Epoch, Hadron, Minotaur
   June 16, 1998 : Part 2
Here's the Shockwave screenshot I promised early this morning. :) 

<p
style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12; border-left: 10px none; border-top: 2px; bord