Account Name:  Cannon, T. Elliot
Email address: myscha@nettally.com
----------
Myscha the sled dog
User: T. Elliot Cannon-Architect
UNREAL Level Designer-
Designer/Consultant to EPIC-MegaGames

*The following statements are ownership of the author and in no way should be  considered by a statement from Epic MegaGames.*
===================================
Monday November 9th, 1998

Been a while since I rambled.

While nobody was lookin-I was able to sneak that 33rd birthday in on Friday. 

KING'S X-TapeHead- GET IT NOW!!
(of course I am a major King's X fan-owning every single recording available.)

Made a covert visit to Dallas last week and was able to survive a bomb threat at the hotel. At least they were nice enough to make sure it happened after 9am-I needed to get up anyways.

Raleigh? What can I tell you-I've only had a chance to explore a 12 block radius thus far.
Maybe for the holidays I'll rent a convertible and explore the whole region. The weather has been perfect. Traffic is a hell of a lot better than freaking Tallahassee, Florida!

Work? Well since GT slipped the Cat out of the bag-yes I've been working some on "Unreal Tournament" among other things. I'm really excited, however about this upcoming merged version of Unreal that's going to be released for free on the net which includes many improvements to weapons and the final Multiplayer pass.

Other notes:Game Observations

I really really like what Raven has done with Heretic 2

1. Fantastic Colorful effects-the best fire I've seen to date.
2. I also relaly like how they resolved the maneurverability issues with players. Being able to jump, climb, and pole vault obstacles gives the gameplay a more vertical and interesting feeling-whereas  "standard" shooters with a default jump height means ramps and stairs and lifts everywhere. I like the Heretic solution the best!

3. I love Melee combat-

Other Games:

Fallout 2
1. Wow- I missed out on Fallout 1 due to production on Unreal. Outstanding design work on this sequel.

2. Took me about 3 days to come off Ultima style combat to get into the turn based stuff, but once I was able to do so, I have enjoyed exploring the settings and pulling off creative solutions to otherwise standard roadblocks. Not 30 minutes goes by at 1 am when Brandon and I aren't yelling at each other across the office "Yo man check this out!"

The only weird thing I've noticed is the abiltiy for NPCs encounters that are hostile to blaze off the screen (taking all your party members with them) You can't access them, but they continue to kick the shit out of each other.)

During the "Gang Raid on Tyler's men" in DEN, Lara, another gang member and myself were chasing a fleeing member of Tyler's crew. We ultimately reached the far right boundary of DEN and all the NPCs continued fighting off screen. I had to sit there for 20 minutes and continue clicking to forfeit my combat round until they finally killed each other off screen. Not a big deal- but that one has happened to me three times so far.

I absolutely loved the combat, the music, and the designs, the dialogue is very natural and the degree of maturity is a welcome relief in a world filled with kiddie happy little world stuff. If you have a limited profanity coefficient-be sure to click the  profanity filter on.

If you haven't gottent Fallout 2-I strongly encourage you to grab both the original and this sequel.

Baldur's Gate-Still waiting-am excited to see how it plays compared to Fallout 2. 

Inoxx still has the Sin CD-haven't been able to play it yet-once he's done I'll give it a whirl.

That's it for now.


Monday November 2nd 1998

Tim just dropped a BETA of the multiplayer patch and I played online on a crappy connection for a few hours and it's really good! My movments were really smoothe and I didn't have to adjust a bunch of highly technical parameters either-I just installed it and BAM.

I can't give out details for fear of verbal abuse from Mark Rein, but lots of OTHER improvements to CORE aspects of Unreal are headed out the door to die hard gamers for FREE!!

If you thought Unreal's multiplayer was poor in the past-grab that latest patch and unzip it all to your Unreal/system directory and give it a shot. I think you'll be really happy with the improvement! There is more to come that's NOT just code--stuff you can KILL with and WELL>

:)
Grab Da patch here.
 http://unreal.epicgames.com/versions.htm




Saturday October Halloween, 1998
Ultima Online the Second Age Rocks booty!
My favorite aspects of it are as follows;

1. NO DAMN HOUSES!
2. Hardly any players (yet)
3. TONS of monsters-some REEEAAALLY tuff.
4. Instant respawns on some creatures-aka Skeleton ruin-You can totally destroy shades, wraiths, spectres, skeletons by the hundreds without moving too much.
5. The world's coolest and nastiest CROW PATCH in Delucia!!!
6. The super fertilized farm in Delucia over 25 billion lettuces sold!
7. Lot's of unexplored lands
8. Tons of untamed Horses.
9. Two other coworkers to play with (Brandon and Alan)
10.More fun than Britannia! Cool new Monsters that are super tough!


Saturday, October 24th, 1998
----------------------------
Raleigh, North Carolina is now home for the sled dog and his truckload of siberians. Florida and it's flagrant misuse of humidity has worn it's welcome out after 26 years there (moved there when I was 7)

Now that most everyone is together in the same temp office (Unreal team)we can really start cranking (at least that's the idea)

Virtual Office had it's advantages such as Freedom, scheduling, loud music, subwoofers permitted, comfortable, smoking permitted etc. etc.

But this way we should be able to actual get more accomplished, which is the best for everyone, especially gamers.

Contacting me:

Email addresses that work.
myscha@nettally.com
myscha@epicgames.com

UO ICQ 17472325 Kira Argounova-Pacific