Account Name:  Cannon, T. Elliot
Email address: myscha@nettally.com
----------
Myscha the sled dog
User: T. Elliot Cannon-Architect
UNREAL Level Designer-
Designer/Consultant to EPIC-MegaGames

Jan 17th, 1999
I just noticed Cliff released some of the DM maps we made that were originally planned to be released with the final Version of the Unreal net Patch-but Tim is still working on it. I'm glad they have been released now so gamers don't have to wait to play.
I've got a question for you gamers out there.

GAMMA SETTINGS> I noticed on PlanetUnreal that some screenshots were taken of the various maps. I also noticed they looked really washed out. Like the 3DFX Gamma setings were really High or something.

When I first got my Diamond Monsters Voodoo 1 I beleive the default Gamma Setting was 1.7-When I got my Voodoo 2 (Creative Labs this time SLI)The default went to 1.3.
For me personally I have always enjoyed 1.0. The reason being is adjusting lighting in the editor seems to best match this. Such that if you edit the lighting in a level-the view in the 3D preview view with Lighting turned on-looks more like it in the game-Thus your lighting tweaks match up better.
Of course Editing is a Software renderer and these shots are 3DFX.

Now I know many times when I'm Deathmatching-all I care about is being able to see jokers slipping through the shadows-Like When I play The Fragpipe online-(Quake2)I always zip my gamma up real quick-whereas the other point release Q2 dm maps seem lighted fine for 1.0 Gamma settings. I'm not saying one is bad and one is good here-I'm just noting an observation about Gamma settings- I know Cliff and I argue about this alot. He likes his stuff at High Gamma-and I like mine low closer to true color. I admit that I like my Gamma settings lower than most folks-I always felt it gives a more realistic appearance to the environments.

Check out the differences between these shots. (if you have mucho bandwidth)
http://www.nettally.com/myscha/gamma.html

All that really matters however is that folks have a blast killing each other-whether they like their Gamma high or not.

This is a Visual Quality Issue that needs to be Standardized amongst developers-or each individual title should help you to adjust your display settings so that the final product appears the way it should.

Even though Riven, by CYAN, isn't a First person shooter, I really liked how they had a set up a menu where you were asked to adjust your display settings easily to make a specific graphic appear a certain way-in hopes of preserving the visual quality of the original design intent.

Half-Life also offered control over this with an in game screenshot in a display menu.

As games get more and more detailed and hopefully more and more immersive, little things like gamma settings the game is to be played on and/or designed around will make a difference to the discriminating gamer.
IMO.

Have fun with the maps-and control those 4 health packs in DM-Letting and you'll be fine.

Jan 15th, 1999

My favorite Games of 1998-(not that anyone cares-but anyway-in no specific order)

Quake2 (although released in December 1997-it's still a classic)

Starcraft-Some of the most impressive Graphics for menus and movies in any game.
Unique mythology and character designs. One of the best RTS games ever made.

Descent Freespace: HUGE ships! Ongoing war with plot twists, mission based, excellent effects, outstanding weapon designs, got drawn into this one and couldn't wait to see what was next.

Commandoes: Unique thinking, awesome mission settings- but HARD HARD HARD. I still haven't finished it. The mission designs are stunning.

Ultima Online: Still playing.Ongoing game that you never "beat" and delete off yer hardrive. Haven't been PK'ed in 6 months :)

Fallout 2: I missed Fallout 1, I absolutely was thoroughly impressed by the sequel. Great settings, bloody combat hit animations, unique story and mythos. The menu style with it's retro-industrial feel was executed perfectly.

Unreal: Biased. Bluff Eversmoking one of my all time favorites. The Skaarj Warrior has to be one of the best monsters ever done in FPS for combat skill.

Heretic 2: EFFECTS!! Mucho animations, Melee combat with blood flying everywhere. Awesome Co-op play. Drop kicking that final boss with Brandon was hilarious. That sneak animation is the best.
Staff weapon the BOMB! I think I played 95% of the entire game slinging that kick ass staff around.

Baldur's Gate: AD&D true to original and hugeeeeee. Close to ending-stuck on 2 Greater basilisks.

Half-Life: The coolest Machine gun I've ever used. Great effects. Unique storyline. Hundreds of maps. Laser Trip mines perfect.
NPC interaction. The Marines are totally fun.
Hardest skill level uncanny.

-------