Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Dan Kramer
Email: dkramer@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: SoF
Last Updated: 02/08/1999 16:19:14 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2/8/98

-- Important:  the opinions expressed here are mine.  They are, of course, correct, but they do not
necessarily represent those of Raven, Activision, etc... --

	Hmmm.  Three and a half months since my last update.  I guess with all the utter crap
I've witnessed on the 'net lately, I've not had much of an inkling to post.  For those of you
who complain that .plan files contain too much non-work related stuff, I'll start off with some
S.O.F. stuff.
	I've been doing bits of work scattered throughout the project the last few months.
Added the ability for designers/modders to customize monster statistics in a quick and easy text
file.  The framework is there to keep track of any sort of statistic you could think of, which
should be a boon to aforementioned designers/modders.
	Made Rick's scripter talk nicely to the A.I.  The designers have been setting up some very
convincing situations.  People on patrol, guys jumping out of alleys, you get the picture... 
	But, I think my favorite stuff was putting in some death animations.  Man, that motion-capture
stuff looks freaky!  It's even downright disturbing!  Don't want to go into detail about the particulars,
but I think we may throw out a litte animation video of one I recently put in.  It's comical because
it's just a game, but yet...  /me shivers..
	Anyway, those of you who don't want to read non-project related stuff can go away now...

-- Rant mode on --

	Recently, there have been a number of incidents in which people have been exercising their
right to free speech (well, I'm guessing that most of these of citizens of countries which protect or 
claim to protect that right) in a less than responsible matter.  For instance, the whole Dallas Observer/
ION Storm thing bothers me a little.  What bother me are not the amazing feats and wonders that the Observer
reported on without any apparent bias *cough*.  Nor the completely justified legal maneuvering of Ion Storm
Legal *cough-cough*.  Those are topics unto themselves which will be left as an exercise for the reader.
What bothers me is the appallingly large number of people who feel that they can speak with impunity
about any topic they choose, whether or not they have any actual topical knowledge, because they can do
it all anonymously.  It is easy to sit here and post, "This guy sucks!" which will be followed by, "No, YOU
suck!" when you don't have to leave your name.  I mean, how much REAL conviction does it take to form
some "argument" consisting of a bunch of four-letter words and beastiality references when you know that
nothing you say will ever be traced back directly to you?  None.  Nicknames don't count.  Unless you are
willing to engage in a TWO-way discussion, then what's the point?  Does it make you feel better?  Do you
actually believe that by spouting off some profane nonsense that people can only trace back to the nickname
"s00per-1337-r0X0R-wAr3Z-d00d-Q2muthakilla-babya$$p0pp3r" somehow makes you right and other people wrong?
	Now, I know that in any "free" society, there will always be the bad apples that try to spoil the
whole damn bunch.  But, it seems that on the 'net, whether it be in the game forums, usenet, IRC or 
what-have-you that the basket seems now to be mostly full of rotten apples.  My guess is this is largely to
do with the circumstances that tend to characterize your "typical" computer gamer:  less-than-popular in the
"real" world, so they make themselves out to be some big-shot hiding behind their computer.

Exhibit 1:  Some guy ICQed me a few days ago, asking if I could help him with a C++ question.  I usually
answer these questions, but I first checked his info page.  He had a link to his home page, so I went.
On this page, he has posted some "hackers' manifesto."  If you ever need a laugh, read the "hackers' manifesto."
I don't know if I have ever read anything that screamed out so loudly "I REALLY need to pretend that I don't
have insecurities by making myself out to be some sort of high-tech ultra cyber-terrorist.  Oh, and I'm 12."
The page continues with some tripe about how the guy hates newbies and lamers, and you should leave his site
if you're not up to his caliber.  Hmmm...  This is the guy asking ME for C++ help?  (I did help him, but not
until I attempted to point out the irony of the situation).

Exhibit 2: 
This link: http://crowdpleazr.ravenarchives.com/nest.shtml

	Yes, think link happens to involve a story written by a co-worker of mine.  It also happens to mention
me and my wife.  I'll summarize it by saying that it is essentially a personal attack on Kenn.  The author
obviously disagrees with an article he wrote, but instead of simply making his/her point, that author resorts
to number of insults and personal attacks.  The part that bothers me the most is this quote, "Hey you have to
have a pretty flimsy grasp on reality if a computer game causes you to 'fear'"(poor grammar left in for accuracy).
This "person" has the gall to accuse my wife, a woman she doesn't know at all of having a "pretty flimsy grasp on
reality" because a game frightened her?  HELLO!?!  Have you EVER played DOOM2 with the lights out, door closed and
stereo on?  Isn't the freaking POINT of enjoying a game, a movie, or a book to evoke some type of emotional
response?  I would say that if you DON'T experience some kind of emotion then either the game is no good or you've
just spent too much time wrapped up in your little world that you can't even enjoy it anymore.  The article rambles
on about how Kenn is obviously wrong and she is obviously right and blah blah blah.  There are several remarks
which seem to put me in less than favorable light, and also don't speak too highly about my wife.  I was considering
writing a response until I saw the signature at the bottom...  -Sparrowslain-

WHAT?  Sparrowslain?  Either your parents were some VERY interesting hippies or that MIGHT not be your name.  Ms.
Sparrowslain may claim that since she did put her nickname at the end that it wasn't anonymous, but I beg to differ.
These remarks will not likely ever be attributed to the human being (I'm guessing) behind the name, so why not go
ahead and post anything she wants?

This is NOT the only example, nor is it the WORST, but it IS indicative of the crap that spews forth daily on the
'net regarding the gaming industry.  Just go read the anonymous comments every time John Romero makes a .plan
update.  I could go on and on, but I have some work to do.  I write games.  Perhaps if some other people weren't
on the outside looking in, they wouldn't be so bitter and they'd be less likely to childishly fly off the handle. 
But they are, and there isn't anything I can do about it.

Later,
Dan  