Name: Chia Chin Lee
Email: cclee@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Sound / Music
Project: General
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1/12/99

A few months ago, I wrote a brief essay on sound and immersion
while collecting my thoughts.  I hope that it may be of interest
to others.

***
Sound and Immersion 

In order for us to study audio in games, we must look at a similar
medium, film sound.  There has been a lot of books and scholarly articles
written about film sound.  We can enrich our knowledge by studying an
established field while appending our own game experience to form another
skill set.

I chose game audio as a profession because it is a field in constant
flux...future advances would likely occur in leaps.  Truly exciting stuff!
A lack of standard can be perceived as a good thing, in my humble opinion.
Because there are no set way to do things, experimentation with different
technologies and aesthetics thrive.

In the film world, the artistry of sound design and composition will
continue to progress and refine itself, but established methods have
generally been agreed upon.  The present state of game audio is akin to the
beginning of sync sound in film.  Game developers remain confused as to how to
properly use sonic elements to enhance the software.  Sound is neglected and
dismissed because it is misunderstood or misused.

In films, sounds can be used to create more immersion than image 
because of three reasons:

1) Physical
Sound can be *felt*, literally.  Extreme low frequencies can cause nausea,
and extreme highs can cause restlessness.  A constant sound pressure can be
maintained to manipulate the audience's physical sensation.  Go watch a
sci-fi thriller in a movie theatre with a good speaker system.  Listen for
that "low rumble"when unspeakable horrors lurk around the corner.  The low
rumble is meant to physically stimulate the audience (subliminally, of
course) into feeling anticipation and nervousness.  Hitchcock was very fond
of this technique.

In *games*, the physical nature of sound is lost, mostly due to the low bit
and rate of the samples.  Added on top of the lost frequencies of sounds,
the audio usually emanate from little multimedia speakers that muffle and
distort the output.

2) Sound Enclosure
In a movie theatre, sound envelopes the theatre through the speakers.
Although the picture is confined to a screen, the sound is not confined to
the speakers, but rather the entire theatre.  The audience is watching a 2
dimensional screen, but they *exist* within the three dimensional auditory
space!  Sound erases the barrier of pictures and belief by enclosing the
viewers in a real, physical space.  Sound can create spatial relationships,
establish locale, and cover up the lack of visual details.  The viewers are
sharing the same auditory world as the characters on-screen.

In *games*, rarely are the speakers set up optimally, thus disabling the
player's ability to "exist" within a sound enclosure.  Immersion cannot be
introduced because few players do not have the hardware capability to exist
in a sonic bubble.

3) Sound as Language
The usage of sound can be overt or covert, triggering physical and culturally
ingrained responses.  The careful interplay between image and sound gives
the sound designer a repertoire of speech conventions similar to those found
in the literary world.  Sound can invoke irony (laugh track in a horror
movie stabbing scene), foreshadow events (slow, deep drones warns the
viewers of the ensuing tension before it transpires), create a simile (a
man is stabbed in a train, and his scream is intertwined with the shrill
train whistle), and so forth.  However, to effectively use sound as
language alongside with visuals, it needs to build itself around the
structure of *preplanned* image.

Furthermore, when audio exists with visual, three relationships can occur:

a) picture and sound of equal dominance.  Example: an intense car chase,
pounding music accentuating action, along with screeching tires.

b) sound as master, picture as slave.  Example: a dimly lit space where the
viewer can't see anything, but low foreboding music and echoey drips of
water outline the situation and location of the characters.

3) picture as master, sound as slave.  Example: man stabbing woman
violently, no music and complete silence... The lack of any sound makes the
viewer focus intently on the disturbing events.

These three relationships are essential for creating immersion, because
they help direct the attention of the viewer.

In *games*, the effective usage of sound as language is much more difficult
to accomplish due to technological limitations and the dynamic freedom
found in the medium.   In the film world, coherence in sonic language is
easier to achieve because the audio track is composed for a predictable,
linear medium...  In the game world, the audio remains the linear
component, while the image becomes dynamic!

Think of games and the way in which music and sound effects fit in.   Most
sound effects are triggered in games by the players' actions (press 'x' for
gunshot...bang!) or other pre-determined circumstances (when player reaches
the steam tunnel, play a 3 second looping ambience file until the player is out of
range).  The problem lies in the static nature of these triggered sound
bites.  One way to make up for "canned" sound is to provide some variety of
the same sound, picked randomly by the game when it is triggered.  However,
there still exists a finite set of sonic possibilities for an almost
infinite set of situations created by the players.

The same dilemma applies to the game musical score.  A looping musical
score is the greatest sin of all.  It has no correlation with the game
whatsoever.  When looping music is set to the game, it is as if two people
are talking to each other without reference to what the other person just
said.

Along the same line, looping fragments of music that change in accordance
to the players' actions is only marginally better.  Although the score does
attempt to talk to the picture, it does so in a limited and "canned"
fashion.  Back to the analogy of two people holding a conversion... This
time one person asks a question, while the other person responds in the
most rudimentary fashion, always using the same phrase to answer it.  The
point is made, but the execution is boring and extremely predictable.

Many tools are available or are being developed to create true dynamic
music.  However, many of these tools are based on the GM/XG, MOD, or DLS
ideal.  While I praise these formats for their effort, currently I will
choose my 128 Meg samplers to create redbook or interactive looping wave
files any day!  The paradox is clear:  Should we use poor quality, 1 to 2
meg GM, MOD, or DLS banks to create a dynamic score, or a humble
interactive music system with sounds limited only by your studio gear?  I
choose the latter, because I firmly believe that anything of bad sound
quality, regardless of its cutting-edge dynamic attributes, will be turned
off or laughed at by callused players.  It is the greater of two evils at this 
point in time.

If we want game audio to progress, we need the cooperation of the
developers and *players* to create the ideal aural experience.  Programmers
need to allocate more resources for audio, while players need to
upgrade their soundcards and speakers.  I'm eagerly awaiting the day when games
perfectly weave graphics and sound into one inseparable component...  After
all, can you imagine watching THX1138 without any sound, or listen to its
soundtrack without seeing the image?
***