Name: Chia Chin Lee
Email: cclee@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Sound / Music
Project: General
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6/18/99

In order to maximize realism in Soldier of Fortune, Raven hired
Mr. John Mullins to bring more authenticity to our game.
After we repeatedly called him a "Mercenary", Mr.  Mullins
politely corrected our faux pas.  Due to the negative connotations
that come with the term "Mercenary", true professionals in the
field prefer the term "Consultants".

Mr. Mullins retired from the Special Forces in 1981, after earning
numerous awards including the Silver Star, Bronze Star with three 
Oak Leaf Clusters, and several Purple Hearts.  Since his retirement,
he has made his services available both to the government and
civilian customers.  Mr. Mullins has headed several operations
in all corners of the world.  These missions range from VIP
Protection to Hostage Negotiation and Rescue.

Although Mr. Mullins has helped us with every aspect of the game,
my primary interest lies in the area of Sound and Combat.
During his visit at Raven, I was able to speak with our Consultant
on this very topic.  Our meeting was fruitful and inspiring,
prompting me to approach the sound design of our game with a
re-invigorated and fresh perspective.

I will now give a brief summary of our conversation, which I hope
you will find interesting, if not slightly morbid.
We are planning to implement these sonic details in our game,
which will greatly enhance the gaming experience.


WEAPONS:
Overall, Mr. Mullins really enjoyed the unique resonance between
the guns in Soldier of Fortune.  He provided several constructive
criticisms concerning some of the weapons ("this should be more
muffled" or "this gun sounds much sharper in action").
The sonic signature of our weapons add a lot to the feel of the guns.


RICOCHETS, ETC:
There are lots of Ricochets sounds in combat situations, 
and whiiiiizzzzing sounds of bullets.  When bullets hit around
you (about 3 feet from your head), you hear intense SNAPPPPING 
of bullets.  It sounds like a firecracker breaking the barrier 
of sound.

Soldiers learn to abide by the "Crack and Thump" rule:  You first 
hear the FIRECRACKER CRACK! around you, then the deep THUMMMMP of 
the weapons.  You can actually *count* the time between the Crack 
and the Thump to determine the distance between you and your enemy.

Depending on the floor surface, you can clearly hear shells hitting 
the floor.  It has a distinct "tink" sound.  Shotgun shells sound 
dull and hollow, while other weapons are metallic.  One should be
careful not to trip on the shells, as they can be slippery on hard
surfaces.


AMBIENCE:
All your senses are intensified in combat situations, so acute 
that "you can hear a rat piss on a cotton ball".  You hear all 
enemy movements clearly, including scurrying footsteps.  The
environmental sounds seem louder too, because of your heightened
awareness.


SPEECH:
There are lots of tactical chatter amongst enemies, such as "GET 
YOUR ASS DOWN!", or "GET OVER HERE!".  Swearing is (not surprisingly)
commonplace in combat situations.  Enemies usually don't taunt you, 
as they are too busy planning amongst themselves.


CARNAGE:
When asked what people sound like when they are wounded, the 
consultant replied:  "Imagine a woman who has just lost her child.
Now imagine the gut-wrenching, high-pitched cries that she lets 
out.  That's what people sound like when they are hit."  Some 
people are more vocal than others, however.  Some soldiers pass 
out cold immediately when hit by a bullet.

Apparently, when bullets hit the flesh, it sounds similar to 
a watermelon being hit by a hammer.  A juicy thud.  Due to 
your heightened sense, you can distinctly hear wounded enemies, 
even as they are gurgling blood or wheezing from a blasted lung.


As a game developer and sound designer, I learned a lot from 
this experience.  It pays to turn to a non-fictional source 
for inspiration and guidance.  Although an active imagination can 
go a long way, the old adage "Truth is Stranger than Fiction",
definitely holds true!