
Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com
Description: Designer / Project Manager
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In my best John Romero style..

Friday marked the birthday of a particularly hard game that I worked on, The 11th Hour.  I know that this is not the //only// hard game ever worked on, so I thought I would share my final thoughts from 5am on the morning it was finished as some free therapy to other developers out there right now in the Christmas crunch.

Graeme. 

From: Graeme J. Devine <zaphod>
Date: Thu Oct 26, 1995  05:13:40 AM US/Central
To: crunchcrew
Cc: all
Subject: Daily Report
Reply-To: zaphod@tbyte.com


Tough Daily Report to write.

I don't really know where to start, so much to tell, so hard to do it.

I guess I thought I'd feel happy, joyous even, when I finished my work on 11th Hour.  I don't know if what I feel is joy or sadness.  It's hard to feel much.  I think the recent hell I've been through has just drained me too much.  It has been hell.

Beyond the game being done, it's now considered shippable and final.  Yes, I know, it's hard to believe, you've all heard rumors and been told it's done before.  There's not really much then I can tell you to change your mind.  If you're happy great, if you're sad, there's not too much I can do.  Some people, even those who have personally witnessed the effort over the years, will never be happy, for whatever reason, with the work we've done, the work I've done, but in the end, that's it.  That's the best I and everyone here can do.  That's it.

Tonight, the halls at Trilobyte had people standing around, for the first time in a while there was no frenzy, no chaos.  There is a pause, a long dark breath is being taken.  The weight of the last few weeks and months lifts away, but not without leaving it's deep impression upon every poor soul whose eyes I look into.

I'm sure there will be more.  More happiness, more hindsight, and more reflection, but there will never be another night like tonight.  There will never be another night that we looked over everything we've done and said, that's it, that's good enough, we're done.

If anyone wants to argue that I'm not done, chained horses could not make me work on this anymore.

I'm done.  Let me grieve my loss.

Graeme.

