Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com
Description: Designer / Project Manager
Project: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RTCW/Q3A Authorize server news.

The Q3A master/auth server fell over on Saturday, I went into the office and re-started.
When I got up this morning (Sunday), it was down again.  It seems an uptime of 200 days
straight is a little much on the computer.

I took the opportunity to upgrade the Q3A master/auth code to the same codebase as RTCW
this brings up all the anti-piracy measures that have been employed in the RTCW codebase.

So apologies for the downtime, we were on it as soon as possible.  The authorize server
resorts to "auth all" when it's down, but the internal browser will not work when the
master server is down.  Any problems beyond that were, of course, your own.  :-)

If you get an "invalid_cdkey" message back from a server, that REALLY means that the
authorize server has recieved your cdkey, decoded it, and found it to be BAD.  Re-entering
your cdkey should fix this problem.  It does not ever give this message with good cdkeys.

If you get the message "client unknown to auth", this means that the authorize server has
yet to hear from you (the player).  Make sure you can ping authorize.quake3arena.com (type
"ping authorize.quake3arena.com" from a command or ms-dos prompt).  If you do not see
"192.246.40.56" in the responses, then this is why you're not getting to play.

If you're playing behind a firewall or NAT router, ensure that the ports to the server,
and the authorize server are open through your firewall or for your NAT IP address.  Refer
to your firewall or router manual, there should be a section for games in it.  The authorize
server runs on port 27952, most servers run on port 27960.

There's a lot of people using the same few cdkeys on Quake 3 right now.  These keys will be
added to the ban list.  If you see "banned cdkey" when you try and connect to a server
this is because your cdkey is in general distribution, and while it will not work that way
(you will get a cdkey in use error), we do now keep lists of banned keys for both RTCW and Q3A.

Graeme.