Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com 
Description: Some Guy
Project: 
Last Updated: 04/14/1999 17:22:14 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4/14/99

We're getting closer to releasing the test version of Quake 3 Arena.  It's worth going
over our expectations from the test vs. the world's expectations from the test.  I appreciate
all the voice mails, faxes, and emails with suggestions, death threats, and comments, and I
do read each and every one of them.  I try to respond to a lot of them, but obviously I can't
respond to them all.

At this point, we still have no release date on the test.  We're testing builds here and at
Activision and continuing to go through cycles.  As soon as feedback from both internal testing
and our testers at Activision dies down, we'll be ready, but while this is providing heavy
reports, as it still is today, we're still not ready to come out with the public test.

There will be two maps in the test; these maps will also be in the final product.  The feedback
we're looking for is specific to the technology in the test.  We're pretty happy with the design,
and feedback on things like weapon switch times, models, gibs, and so forth are not things we'll
pay as much attention to as real issues with the technology.  We're looking closely at modem, ISDN,
and cable play to see how our new network code works, and how that works when a bunch of different
connections are playing together on the same server.  We're anxious to gauge server load and use
with the maps we have to see how the server works under heavy use, and to make sure we've got a lot
of the new client/server communication working reliably and securely.

That said, we do and will watch you play, read the message boards, and try to gauge feedback.  But
the main thing to remember is that this is a test technology build, not a demo, there will be a
demo, we plan on a demo, but this is a test.  A lot of you will want to wait on the demo rather than
playing the test.

The test will be on all three platforms, Mac, Linux and Win32.  We're still working on minimum and
recommended specs.  There are no bots in the test.  We do plan on revving the test once it's out at
regular intervals to get fixes out there.

There is no spoon.

3/28/99

I know a lot of you are looking at the end of the month as a fixed date for q3test,
but we're probably looking to be within a few weeks of that date rather than exactly
on it.  We're working on it; I just want to keep expectations in line with reality.

This is a test of Quake 3:Arena, not the demo.  With this test we're looking to see
how well the brand new networking and graphics code works, and while we've run this
through a QA process here and at Activision, this is not code that is of release
quality in speed or gameplay.  Please do not look upon this as the "demo" of Q3A.

Thanks.  I now return you to your regular programming.

3/2/99

Xian says I need to put something new here.

It's been a busy two weeks, and I've yet to get any furniture.

Thoughts later.