Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com 
Description: Some Guy
Project: 
Last Updated: 04/23/1999 21:32:02 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4/23/99

The test is not coming out tonight, but we do have a Macintosh candidate ready to go.  If all goes
well tonight, it will be out over the weekend.  The Linux/Win32 builds are not yet ready.

The test version of Quake 3 Arena is just that, a test, and as such we here at id software need
to have some controls over it as we start to test it out publicly.  Without these controls we
cannot actively track and improve the product in a manageable manner.

We wanted, and are eager to be completely "out there" on all platforms, but the OpenGL drivers
the product needs for all the platforms are not yet finalized.  By launching on the Mac first it
gives the various 3D board manufacturers some time to get their Win32 OpenGL 3D drivers certified
with Microsoft.  We're using, and depend on, the latest and greatest drivers and want to be able to
distribute those drivers for the Win32 platform.

The Macintosh market is smaller than the Win32 market, and has less configuration options than the
Linux market.  There is only a single OpenGL driver, and the hardware is essentially always the same.
This is an ideal "controlled" environment for the initial testing.  Basically, if there is a huge
issue with the initial release we're exposing a smaller audience to it.  This turns out to be a good
thing.

The plan is to release the Macintosh version first, followed by the Linux version, followed by the
Win32 version.  We will release on the other platforms as soon as possible.  We will rev the other
platforms as we make new releases.

I hope you understand and agree with this decision/process.  It is a good step towards a timely
release of the full demo and retail product.

4/23/99

No news is good news they say!  We're still working hard to get the test out.  If you could refer
questions to me (zaphod@idsoftware.com) regarding the test I'd appreciate it, everyone else here
is plenty swamped.  Obviously if it's just "when?" then that is pretty hard to answer, because "when"
will be as soon as it's done!

But watch this space and remember to follow the white rabbit.

4/14/99

We're getting closer to releasing the test version of Quake 3 Arena.  It's worth going
over our expectations from the test vs. the world's expectations from the test.  I appreciate
all the voice mails, faxes, and emails with suggestions, death threats, and comments, and I
do read each and every one of them.  I try to respond to a lot of them, but obviously I can't
respond to them all.

At this point, we still have no release date on the test.  We're testing builds here and at
Activision and continuing to go through cycles.  As soon as feedback from both internal testing
and our testers at Activision dies down, we'll be ready, but while this is providing heavy
reports, as it still is today, we're still not ready to come out with the public test.

There will be two maps in the test; these maps will also be in the final product.  The feedback
we're looking for is specific to the technology in the test.  We're pretty happy with the design,
and feedback on things like weapon switch times, models, gibs, and so forth are not things we'll
pay as much attention to as real issues with the technology.  We're looking closely at modem, ISDN,
and cable play to see how our new network code works, and how that works when a bunch of different
connections are playing together on the same server.  We're anxious to gauge server load and use
with the maps we have to see how the server works under heavy use, and to make sure we've got a lot
of the new client/server communication working reliably and securely.

That said, we do and will watch you play, read the message boards, and try to gauge feedback.  But
the main thing to remember is that this is a test technology build, not a demo, there will be a
demo, we plan on a demo, but this is a test.  A lot of you will want to wait on the demo rather than
playing the test.

The test will be on all three platforms, Mac, Linux and Win32.  We're still working on minimum and
recommended specs.  There are no bots in the test.  We do plan on revving the test once it's out at
regular intervals to get fixes out there.

There is no spoon.

3/28/99

I know a lot of you are looking at the end of the month as a fixed date for q3test,
but we're probably looking to be within a few weeks of that date rather than exactly
on it.  We're working on it; I just want to keep expectations in line with reality.

This is a test of Quake 3:Arena, not the demo.  With this test we're looking to see
how well the brand new networking and graphics code works, and while we've run this
through a QA process here and at Activision, this is not code that is of release
quality in speed or gameplay.  Please do not look upon this as the "demo" of Q3A.

Thanks.  I now return you to your regular programming.

3/2/99

Xian says I need to put something new here.

It's been a busy two weeks, and I've yet to get any furniture.

Thoughts later.