Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com
Description: Some Guy
Project: 
Last Updated: 05/12/1999 00:56:24 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5/12/99

Off to E3.  I'm the point on q3feedback, so the soonest I'll be picking up
email is Sunday, so don't expect a response the next few days!  You can
catch us at the Activision booth if you want to let me know in person just
how long you had to wait for the Win32 test.

Anyone with tapes of last weeks X-Files?

The main issues we're seeing are:

3Dfx drivers seem to be pretty darn difficult.  About 50% of the emails
comprise of 3Dfx issues including BSOD on NT, crashing during level changes,
and crashing due to in game mode changes.  We're working with 3Dfx on this.

The next biggest problem is that people run the game without running GLSETUP
to update their drivers.  Arrgh.  Arrgh.

People claim that the TNT slows to a crawl when you in-game change the video
color depth to 32bpp, but it's fine after a restart.

There's a "lag trap" quirk of firing the plasma gun 12 times at a wall, as
people approach it the overdraw slows their systems and makes them
vulnerable to hits.

There's a lot of people trying to run the game with 32mb of RAM.

Setting everything to "highest" (highest resolution, color depth, etc.)
causes artifacts on the TNT.

Alt-TAB on a Matrox G200 causes the system to crash.

A lot of people wrote to let us know that they just love the game.

The main game feedback seems to be:

1. the new railgun sucks / and / or is / awesome.
2. the game is too slow / too fast.
3. make it more like quake 1 / quake 2.
4. the rockets are too slow / too fast.
5. people die too slow / too fast.
6. the graphics are awesome / too cartoony.
7. don't touch a thing / change everything.

5/10/99

Here (at long last for most of you) is Q3Test version 1.05.  We've worked long
and hard to get this to you and we look forward to your feedback on what's
right and what's wrong with it.

There's one known issue with the Linux dedicated server taking up way too much
CPU time.  As other known issues come to light we'll try to keep you all in the
loop.  Please try and email q3feedback with a good sensible subject line, mention
what sort of system/OS you have, and remember that humans read all the feedback.

GLSetup will have it's own press release sometime later this evening, but we're
very excited to be part of this venture.  But I'll let Chris Hecker tell you all
about it.

5/10/99

IMPORTANT!

You must completely nuke your old Q3TEST install before installing the update.
The config files from the old build are BAD voodoo.

You can also type "exec democycle" to watch a bunch of id people play the map.


5/10/99

Q3Test 1.05 is DONE!

New Linux/Mac versions are going up right now, and we're finishing up the installer
for the Win32 version.

If all goes well, the Win32 version will follow in a few hours (few == six or so).

5/9/99

We're getting closer, but I think it'll be tomorrow before we're out.

Internally we're bashing on the new maps, code, servers, and clients.  There is a
/lot/ of new stuff in there and we want to bang on it for a bit before we release.

We are building installers, pak files, and so forth, so our confidence level is good,
but since it's only been 15 minutes since the last bug fix (which was a doozy of a
find BTW) and the new maps are still being bsp'd.  All of this makes a release tonight
seem like a bit of a risk.

If all goes well we will bash on it tonight and tomorrow, and once John gets in
tomorrow we'll be ready to go.

5/7/99

We're looking to release Q3Test for Win32 on May 19th.

Just kidding.

We're approaching what we consider a good build on Q3Test for Win32, and our current
estimate, barring any problems, is that we will release it on Sunday evening.  We will
release Q3Test updates for Mac and Linux a few hours before Win32 to check for any
bonehead issues.

There will be completely new data for this version of the test, old versions will not
be compatible with the new version, and old and new servers do not mix.

If things change I'll let you all know.  But this is the current plan.

5/1/99

Rent day and I need to pay!

I see several people are going for the master server right now.  That's fine, but
we're changing the format of the server pretty radically over the next few days so
the packet size will be nice and small and queries can be more detailed.  If you're
a hacker out there and you want to email me with suggestions, that's cool.

We will be publishing the specs to the master server and MOTD server really soon, we're
anxious for people to look over that stuff.

4/30/99

The G3 firmware update is at:

http://asu.info.apple.com/swupdates.nsf/artnum/n11361

4/29/99

We're about to update (tonight) the executables to 1.03 of q3test, there is a
seperate download for win32 and mac that just contains the updates, and the
main files have been updated as well.  Win32 is still only available as a
dedicated server.

We're also releasing the Linux version of q3test, this will available as a RPM
and as .tar.gz.

If you have a G3 system, I highly recommend the new firmware update from Apple,
that gave us a noticeable (to humans) framerate improvement.

Here's the update list:


Mac specific
------------
improved networking stability
improved device scanning
improved speed
improved memory checking
improved sound latency

Generic
-------
global motd/update server
added drop shadow to field characters and fixed scrolling
fixed edge-of-bounce-pad misprediction error (server side)
removed broken weapon-stay dmflag
made menu gfx never picmip
cheat protect r_lightmap
cheat protect r_nocurves
clear sound buffer before any file IO
continuous scoreboard / ping update when tab is down
put version number on menu background
dim out behind floating menus
fixed server crashing string bug
adjusted scoreboard for 8 players
show hostname on connection screen
fixed null model warning on startup
more space for hostname on local servers screen
sv_privateClients, sv_privatePassword
"server is full" message on connect screen
archive handicap in config file


4/26/99

Here's the most common bugs we're getting.  The first two bugs account for
75% of all the bugs we're getting.  After that, the texture corruption bug
seems to be the most common, and then the rest are noise or install related.

Generally, unless the detail is clear, I've waited to get a bug twice before
reporting it.

If you get a crash, and it's repeatable, the Macsbug app syslog would be
greatly appreciated!

Graeme.

Macintosh:

--

Turning up everything to the highest level of detail makes Mac crash on
loading level.  This is by far the most common bug (50% of bugs).

--

This one is about 25% of the bugs:

Rage Pro with 6mb of RAM on iMacs boots out with "need 4mb" error.  Works
fine on G3 systems.  Others with G3 systems report that they are getting the
"need 4mb" error as well.

Someone did narrow this down to:

If you try to use an ADB mouse rather than a USB mouse, Q3 bails out with an
error that says "you must have at least 4MB of video memory."

--

Apparently after going through the underground area (that you must flip the
switch to open), certain curved surfaces (such as arched ceilings) draw with
garbage textures, as do a few other (flat) surfaces.

May be related to:

When running in 32-bit color depth, lighting effects (such as from a weapon
firing) cause the affected textures to temporarily turn to garbage.
(System:  Blue tower G3)

--

MacQuake3 test on a B&W G3/400.  When I try to run the app it refuses to run
with the error "InterfaceLib--AddDurationToAbsolute could not be found."

--

random crash (but with Macsbug syslog)

  Sys_GetPacket: OTLook 64
  Sys_GetPacket: OTRcvUDErr 27547436

I was then dropped into Macsbug inside CalcC_LerpVertexes.

--

G3 Global Village modem overrides game display with "connected" status bars.

--

Every time I try to go through the silvery warp portal when playing on your
server (does not occur on local game) I crash (q3test1)

--

Exit game crash (but with Macsbug syslog)

--

Installation of the OpenGL driver from Apple breaks their DVD player
software.

--

Players running around as axial models (null models).

--

There is a flaw in the Mac OS.  It thinks 800x600 at 120Hz will work with my
monitor, but it doesn't.  Since the OS thinks this refresh rate will work,
Quake also thinks it.  Therefore, when I switch to 800x600, my monitor
blacks out and could possibly be damaged.

In the options, Quake should show ALL possible monitor configurations with
ALL refresh rates.  That way, the user can pick the one that will work best
with his setup.

--

Running on a powermac 8600/300 96mb (vm to 120), ATI Rage 8mb.  More or less
any changes I make in graphics display options causes the game to crash as
it loads a map.

--

I have both an ATI Rage 128 and a Voodoo3 plugged in to my system for
development work.  If the V3 is in the 66Mhz slot and the ATI in any other
PCI slot, Quake3 will fire up on the ATI just fine.

However, if the ATI is in the 66Mhz slot and the Voodoo3 in a PCI slot, I
get an error message that says "Could not initialize OpenGL".  This appears
to happen after the video mode change.

--

When screen resolution is 640x480 or 800x600 on the PowerBook G3 Series
(with a built-in ATI Rage Pro, I think), the background is all white instead
of the QUAKE3ARENA TEST graphic.  This may be related to the fact that the
3D card has support for stretching those resolutions to fill the actual flat
screen hardware resolution of 1024x768.  It is particularly hard to ignore
this effect since much of the setup UI is white on a white background.

--

NT 4.0 server bugs:

--

The 'toggle' command can toggle write protected cvars. Example: "toggle
fs_restrict"

The 'wait' command with a negative parameter causes an infinite wait.
Example: "wait -1; echo foo"



4/23/99

The test is not coming out tonight, but we do have a Macintosh candidate ready to go.  If all goes
well tonight, it will be out over the weekend.  The Linux/Win32 builds are not yet ready.

The test version of Quake 3 Arena is just that, a test, and as such we here at id software need
to have some controls over it as we start to test it out publicly.  Without these controls we
cannot actively track and improve the product in a manageable manner.

We wanted, and are eager to be completely "out there" on all platforms, but the OpenGL drivers
the product needs for all the platforms are not yet finalized.  By launching on the Mac first it
gives the various 3D board manufacturers some time to get their Win32 OpenGL 3D drivers certified
with Microsoft.  We're using, and depend on, the latest and greatest drivers and want to be able to
distribute those drivers for the Win32 platform.

The Macintosh market is smaller than the Win32 market, and has less configuration options than the
Linux market.  There is only a single OpenGL driver, and the hardware is essentially always the same.
This is an ideal "controlled" environment for the initial testing.  Basically, if there is a huge
issue with the initial release we're exposing a smaller audience to it.  This turns out to be a good
thing.

The plan is to release the Macintosh version first, followed by the Linux version, followed by the
Win32 version.  We will release on the other platforms as soon as possible.  We will rev the other
platforms as we make new releases.

I hope you understand and agree with this decision/process.  It is a good step towards a timely
release of the full demo and retail product.

4/23/99

No news is good news they say!  We're still working hard to get the test out.  If you could refer
questions to me (zaphod@idsoftware.com) regarding the test I'd appreciate it, everyone else here
is plenty swamped.  Obviously if it's just "when?" then that is pretty hard to answer, because "when"
will be as soon as it's done!

But watch this space and remember to follow the white rabbit.

4/14/99

We're getting closer to releasing the test version of Quake 3 Arena.  It's worth going
over our expectations from the test vs. the world's expectations from the test.  I appreciate
all the voice mails, faxes, and emails with suggestions, death threats, and comments, and I
do read each and every one of them.  I try to respond to a lot of them, but obviously I can't
respond to them all.

At this point, we still have no release date on the test.  We're testing builds here and at
Activision and continuing to go through cycles.  As soon as 