Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com
Description: Some Guy
Project: 
Last Updated: 09/02/1999 13:47:14 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9/2/99

I see a lot of people are playing with nude reptiles!

We are not doing a Matrix game.  When we finish Q3A we'll start on the next
project.  We will try and fit the words "welcome to my underground lair" into
the next game, mostly because we think Steed would be good at making fembots.

Okay, that's more of a suggestion than a truth.  We'll probably do something
completely different based on stories of the Quake 3 Bus and the Nevada desert.

9/1/99

Some of you have commented on the master server being a bit odd right now.
It's actually running just fine, it's just responding to queries for protocol
41, which is not entirely compatible with protocol 40.  Only servers with
people on there will actually show up.  You can force showing the empty
servers with the keyword "empty", but this isn't so useful since in 1.08 you
can't combine that with game types (e.g. you can't say "empty tourney").  For
completeness's sake, you can also say "full".  But heck, if you type in "nude
reptiles", you can scan that too and get exactly zip.

All of this is of course fixed in the new test and browsing gametypes,
keywords, and so forth is easier than ever.  You'll swoon.  Trust me.

For those of you, and there's a bunch of you, who believe that our previous
efforts had better network support than 1.08, we've set up servers here for
you to get side to side experiences.  Go try them and let me know.

Q3test 1.05			-		192.246.40.68:27961
Q3test 1.08			-		192.246.40.68:27960
Quake 2 version  3.20		-		192.246.40.68
QuakeWorld version   2.30	-		192.246.40.68
Quake version  1.09		-		192.246.40.68

We're pretty confident you'll be seeing things our way pdq.

Eric, our in house live human, bet Tim that he couldn't make a fun map in under
an hour.  Tim, being Tim, took him up (the exact nature of what was bet remains
somewhat fuzzy, but it may have involved lunch).  Forty-five minutes later we
had "fun", which has remained interestingly addictive throughout the last week
to the entire company (of course, listening to Tim tell this story, it's down
to thirty-five minutes while he had no power, and the mouse was disconnected
from his machine).

The lesson from all this is either that Tim really values something fuzzy to do
with lunch, or that Quake 3 is so darn cool you can toss together maps in less
than an hour.  Okay, maybe knowing what Tim knows helps, so we're going to dissect
his brain for science and get him working as our own personal AI (John swears it's
possible) churning out 24 levels a day 24/7 until some odd Y2K bug causes him to
make every telephone in the world ring at once.  Oh wait, that was Lawnmower Man.


8/13/99

BTW.  You can search for Q3A Internet Servers using the keywords "ffa",
"tourney", "deathmatch", "team" and "tournament" in the Internet game
browser screen to only show specific types of maps.

8/3/99

Q3Test 1.08!!!  Go bring down your favorite Internet site.

Because it's once again a full download, we've included a new model
(Sarge) with this version of the test as a consolation prize.  You need
to select him from the console using the "model sarge" command.

7/21/99

Mac Users!  We're not ignoring you, we're just having a slight technical
problem with the Macintosh build right now.  BTW, I'm in love with that
new iBook!  When they ship that's going to be /the/ portable.

7/20/99

1.07 is out there.  Please try and find cheat exploits and report them to us!

Also, keep in mind that this is a test, and not the final product.  There's a lot
in the test which is very temporary, so while we've taken great pride in
putting out very solid test releases, we're still working hard on the final
product and very much appreciate your feedback (q3feedback@idsoftware.com)
in getting this product right for you - the players -

I get a bunch of feedback from people wanting this product to be more like
Quake 1 or Quake 2, while others look for us to innovate and make something
brand new.  Quake 3 is arcade deathmatch, nothing more and nothing less.  It's
not Quake 1 nor Quake 2, but does nod it's head in the direction of the online DM
version of both those products (and apparently pissing off both parties at the
same time).

Look to the next id product to give you the "brand new" gameplay and world.
Quake 3 Arena will keep basically with what you've seen and read about up
until now and it's now time to put this one to bed.

7/19/99

Not tonight.  We're fixing the cheat exploits.  Users who downloaded the current
build should expect a 3-5 meg update (so you don't have to download the
whole thing).

7/19/99

Okay.  More.  Must Sleep Soon.

We're testing a new version of the build right now that has some new stuff in it:

- the ; key now remains bound (for all you lefties)
- the timescale exploit has been plugged (again, actually this was in the last
  version of the test and a lot of people were silently using it)
- LAN servers display properly
- IPX is working
- the enabling cheat exploit has been fixed
- CPU time for servers should be nicer
- an exploit in the tourney map has been filled
- joystick support (there is no conspiracy here, but this might require more time
  to fix than just tonight)

We're looking to get win32/Macintosh out there, hopefully tonight, but probably
tomorrow by the time we're through checking all this out.

BTW, I finished DK2 (with Adrian screaming at me most of the time to build a bigger
torture chamber).

THAT GAME ROCKED!

7/19/99

SOCKS Proxy Support

There are five cvars that control it. They are only settable from the at init
time (from the OS command line).

+set net_socksEnabled 1
+set net_socksServer 
+set net_socksPort 
+set net_socksUsername
+set net_socksPassword

Please note that you use the address (name or IP number) of the SOCKS server
(firewall machine), NOT a Q3ATEST server. The port number defaults to 1080,
you should not need to change this.

It supports no authentication and username/password authentication method
(RFC-1929); it does NOT support GSS-API method (RFC-1961) authentication.

7/17/99

Some variable things we missed or are hard to find in the readme:

g_gametype

A value of 0 here indicates classic “Free For All”, a value of 1 indicates
“Tournament Play” and a value of 2 indicates “Team Deathmatch”.

So, to start a dedicated server in tournament mode, you would use:

quake3 +set dedicated 2 +set sv_zone tournaments +set g_gametype 1 +map q3tourney

The warmup time for tournament play is set with g_warmup.  A tournament
game is implicitly a one on one match, and further players are automatically
entered as spectators (note, when the game starts, all clients, including the
spectators respawn).  You can follow the players by using “team follow1”,
“team follow2”, and you can be a scoreboard by using “team scoreboard”.

We appear to have broken joystick support somewhat between the first IHV
drop and the final release of the test.  We’ll address that (so don’t start the
email bombardment on it!).

Expect the master server to be up and down over the weekend, now we have
protocol 38 servers out there in large numbers we’re able to tune that stuff so
it works a wee bit better.

Thanks for the support!

7/16/99

Okay, it's there (as I'm sure you all know).

I'll update tomorrow on how to set up servers in zones so you can easily
find/check/get to servers in groups.  It's a nifty new feature.  Until then
I'm sure you'll all be slamming each other down on Xian's excellent new
tournament map.

As usual, send bugs to q3feedback@idsoftware.com

7/16/99

A new build of q3test (win32) has been constructed in your workshop.
That's a little DK2 joke there...

We're hacking on it a bit before it's public, but it's looking good to go!  I'll
update my plan file once it's out and fill you all in on what's new.

Good bug find by Sherman Archibald today for all you Riva 128 owners.

7/16/99

You can all go to sleep.

7/9/99

So who’s the best at id?

We were playing Xian’s new tourney map (it will be in the next release of
q3test) within the company and Tim decided it would be a hoot to have a mini
id “tournament”.  We huddled in the observation room watching (and shouting
a great deal) match after match unfold in the new spectator modes until the final
game.  Everyone at id played and when they weren’t playing, they were watching
and cheering intently.

So who’s the best?

John “The Terminator” Carmack won quite handily, convincing us all further that
there really is some code in there that says “If (player==Alloy)”.  Second place
went to our esteemed CEO Todd “Hold Still Dammit While I Frag You” Hollenshead.
The rest of us where suitably humbled…(but we all claimed it’s because we work
so much).

It was a good test of the tournament code and great fun.  We will be doing the
same thing in-house again soon since the method led to some good changes.  Next
time however, there will be a few changes.  The emergency phone call to Todd from
Activision is already planned, and we’re thinking the arrival of a new Ferrari catalog
mid game for John will throw him off for the required microseconds to remove the
ball from his mouse.

So where’s that darn test?

Like the Great Prophet Zarquon said, “all sorts of things popped up”.  It’s still “soon”.
We need to merge code, test, and do a drop to IHVs to make sure everything is
hunky-dory with them.  The tourney map needs a wee bit more tweaking, and some
of the tourney code needs a little bit more work and testing.  There’s a lot of new
stuff in there!

BTW, Dungeon Keeper 2 is one of the best games I’ve played in a long time.  It's not
delayed the test at all.  Honest.

6/21/99

We had the Ion Storm guys over last week to play a little deathmatch, and while
I won’t say who won between Romero and Killcreek, I can tell you it wasn’t the
male of the species.  But boy, can those Ion guys talk smack.

The reason we asked them over was to have them check in on the status of our
tournament map, which we hope to get out there soon with the next version of the
test (to give you all time to practice on it before QuakeCon, you are going to
QuakeCon right?).  We’re also looking at a /lot/ of bug fixes, changes, and tweaks
so we’re gearing up for your feedback.  I’ll let Chris Hecker speak for glsetup,
but we’re looking to get that updated and support for 3Dfx in there.

Soon can be defined as soon.  And that’s probably not this week.

6/05/99

Mailbombs suck.  They can cause delays and make it hard to find the meaningful
emails from the noise.  Please stop.  I can't even read the language the email is
in to know what it says!

Okay.  A series of misunderstandings between id and Tom's Hardware has led
to a "vs." benchmark war.  We're cool with Tom, and he's cool with us.  We're
both going to move on and start over afresh.

I just don't understand why my Riva 128 isn't more popular...

6/03/99

Okay.  Wow.  The Linux community has far exceeded any kind of expectations
I had on feedback!  I've been blown away.

Mike Warfield and Mark Hazen helped me out on the Samba timestamp problem.
It seems RH 6.0 is compiled with a special fix for mounting Win95 drives,
but that causes issues with NT and Win98 drive mounts.  The solution is to
recompile the kernel.

Several people helped me out with the compile of smbmount.c, and in the end
I got that going by adding a #define NR_OPEN 1024 at the beginning of that
code.

On the email front, and I think this is one of the ongoing gating issues to
true corporate use of Linux.  A lot of people use VMWare to run Win32 apps
that have no equivalent in Linux land yet.  Out of them all, XEmacs + VM
seems to be the most stable/complete solution, and perhaps that will make
it's way to my desktop, but I don't see that making it way onto everyones.

It seems to me that if someone wrote a bunch of Java apps using the Swing
UI we could have very nice cross platform tools that worked in every
OS we had to boot in the office.

More than anything, I'm just blown away by how positive the community is.

Q3Test answers.

Yes, it should have SMP support, there are some issues with it (on some
drivers), so it's not enabled by default.

Joystick support is mostly there, but John is still working on a couple of
the more interesting flavors.

6/02/99

We're working on a new Q3Test update, no schedule other than "soon", but the
fixes are almost all internal.  We've still got a few issues we want to get
going internally at id (notably multi-network machines).

Brian is leaving, and I just want to wish him well.  He shall be missed.  We're
not going to be bringing anyone else in during Quake3 development.

I'm a bit behind on feedback email and it's all Lilith and Eve's fault.  I
went to watch their show over the weekend and Realplayer said I needed to
upgrade, so I did, and since then I've been toast.  I'm sure it's not
Realnetwork's fault, there's simply too much beta about my Windows install
to make it safe for things like DLL files.

Since then I've shifted to Linux (RedHat 6.0) as my major desktop.  No more
Win32!  My questions to the techies amongst you are:

	- we've had issues with Linux machines randomizing timestamps on Win32
	  filesystems when we use smbmount to mount NT servers.  How do we fix
	  this?  I'm unable to get smbmount to compile in the Samba 2.04b (it
	  errors out with a bad identifier -- NR_OPEN).

	- the email client situation is not quite on par with Win32.  Netscape
	  seems the nicest, but KMail, Balsa, and others I've looked at seem
	  to be in active development and not quite ready for solid use.  Is
	  this the case?  I like Outlook type interfaces over Pine type 
	  interfaces.

I looked online, usenet, and other misc. mailing lists, but wanted to see
what real world people out there are using and doing.

5/12/99

Off to E3.  I'm the point on q3feedback, so the soonest I'll be picking up
email is Sunday, so don't expect a response the next few days!  You can
catch us at the Activision booth if you want to let me know in person just
how long you had to wait for the Win32 test.

Anyone with tapes of last weeks X-Files?

The main issues we're seeing are:

3Dfx drivers seem to be pretty darn difficult.  About 50% of the emails
comprise of 3Dfx issues including BSOD on NT, crashing during level changes,
and crashing due to in game mode changes.  We're working with 3Dfx on this.

The next biggest problem is that people run the game without running GLSETUP
to update their drivers.  Arrgh.  Arrgh.

People claim that the TNT slows to a crawl when you in-game change the video
color depth to 32bpp, but it's fine after a restart.

There's a "lag trap" quirk of firing the plasma gun 12 times at a wall, as
people approach it the overdraw slows their systems and makes them
vulnerable to hits.

There's a lot of people trying to run the game with 32mb of RAM.

Setting everything to "highest" (highest resolution, color depth, etc.)
causes artifacts on the TNT.

Alt-TAB on a Matrox G200 causes the system to crash.

A lot of people wrote to let us know that they just love the game.

The main game feedback seems to be:

1. the new railgun sucks / and / or is / awesome.
2. the game is too slow / too fast.
3. make it more like quake 1 / quake 2.
4. the rockets are too slow / too fast.
5. people die too slow / too fast.
6. the graphics are awesome / too cartoony.
7. don't touch a thing / change everything.

5/10/99

Here (at long last for most of you) is Q3Test version 1.05.  We've worked long
and hard to get this to you and we look forward to your feedback on what's
right and what's wrong with it.

There's one known issue with the Linux dedicated server taking up way too much
CPU time.  As other known issues come to light we'll try to keep you all in the
loop.  Please try and email q3feedback with a good sensible subject line, mention
what sort of system/OS you have, and remember that humans read all the feedback.

GLSetup will have it's own press release sometime later this evening, but we're
very excited to be part of this venture.  But I'll let Chris Hecker tell you all
about it.

5/10/99

IMPORTANT!

You must completely nuke your old Q3TEST install before installing the update.
The config files from the old build are BAD voodoo.

You can also type "exec democycle" to watch a bunch of id people play the map.


5/10/99

Q3Test 1.05 is DONE!

New Linux/Mac versions are going up right now, and we're finishing up the installer
for the Win32 version.

If all goes well, the Win32 version will follow in a few hours (few =