Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com
Description: Some Guy
Project: 
Last Updated: 11/06/1999 21:48:24 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11/6/99

I asked everyone to come up with Tips Of the Day for Q3A, it was a serious endeavor
to get some cool tips into the product (a fun game is trying to match the id employee
with the quote).

Here are some gems from the masters:

Often there are secrets hidden below the hellfog.

Every map has a special exit. Chat with the bots to find it.

If you get negative 10000 frags something cool happens.

Save money by calling our tech support from the office phone. 

To open secret level press the reset button immediately after completing Tier 5.

Run over the armor backwards to obtain optional armor pants.

Ain't nothin' like four bare feet in a bed. Unless you have five bare feet in a bed in
which case one belongs to an amputee not a freak with three feet.

Save water. Shower with a friend.

Never eat spinach with a stranger.

You call me Francis, I'll kill ya.

Don't look at the glass eye.

Try and keep Klesk from getting the railgun on q3tourney3

Q3A ownz jooo!

Strafe to the right, strafe to the left... now everybody jump around, jump around.

Monkey thinks bandannas more ripe at top of the tree.

Take the blue pill; you aren't the one.

Complain a lot about lag, LPBs, and packet loss; you'll still lose, but you'll sound
smarter.

Bind forward to control, jump to alt, and attack to delete.  Then amaze everyone
with your running jump shots!

When about to lose a big game, throw the Big Red Switch then come back on
and bitch about your ISP.

Always hit your enemy and never let them hit you.

Never tell Adrian that you hit his Viper.

The Red Fog is bad for your health.

11/2/99

The MOTD server and master server will be up and down over the next few days, if you don't
get a response that's probably the reason why.

9/29/99

Ah, grappling hook hoopla – when I read about the hoopla over UT grapple CTF I knew we’d
have a similar impact (BTW, believe it or not, there is room for both games in the universe!). 
The grapple code is still going to be in Q3A (through bot reachability and so forth), it’s just
not on the maps we’re shipping with the product.  The CTF maps we have in there are designed
for non-grapple use.  CTF and grapple are not tied implicitly together.

Mr. Elusive (aka Jan Paul) is over here from The Netherlands helping finalize the game.  He is
of course the famed author of the Gladiator bot for Quake II.  As some of you have been
guessing he’s been working with John Cash on the bots in Q3A.  We’re very pleased to have
Jan’s expertise on Q3A.

9/25/99

A few of you have asked about the message of the day text.  It’s giving you your exe
startup number since last Monday.  So basically, we’ve had over 2 million Quake 3 Arena
games start worldwide since 9/20/99.  That works out to around 4 games every second.

9/2/99

I see a lot of people are playing with nude reptiles!

We are not doing a Matrix game.  When we finish Q3A we'll start on the next
project.  We will try and fit the words "welcome to my underground lair" into
the next game, mostly because we think Steed would be good at making fembots.

Okay, that's more of a suggestion than a truth.  We'll probably do something
completely different based on stories of the Quake 3 Bus and the Nevada desert.

9/1/99

Some of you have commented on the master server being a bit odd right now.
It's actually running just fine, it's just responding to queries for protocol
41, which is not entirely compatible with protocol 40.  Only servers with
people on there will actually show up.  You can force showing the empty
servers with the keyword "empty", but this isn't so useful since in 1.08 you
can't combine that with game types (e.g. you can't say "empty tourney").  For
completeness's sake, you can also say "full".  But heck, if you type in "nude
reptiles", you can scan that too and get exactly zip.

All of this is of course fixed in the new test and browsing gametypes,
keywords, and so forth is easier than ever.  You'll swoon.  Trust me.

For those of you, and there's a bunch of you, who believe that our previous
efforts had better network support than 1.08, we've set up servers here for
you to get side to side experiences.  Go try them and let me know.

Q3test 1.05			-		192.246.40.68:27961
Q3test 1.08			-		192.246.40.68:27960
Quake 2 version  3.20		-		192.246.40.68
QuakeWorld version   2.30	-		192.246.40.68
Quake version  1.09		-		192.246.40.68

We're pretty confident you'll be seeing things our way pdq.

Eric, our in house live human, bet Tim that he couldn't make a fun map in under
an hour.  Tim, being Tim, took him up (the exact nature of what was bet remains
somewhat fuzzy, but it may have involved lunch).  Forty-five minutes later we
had "fun", which has remained interestingly addictive throughout the last week
to the entire company (of course, listening to Tim tell this story, it's down
to thirty-five minutes while he had no power, and the mouse was disconnected
from his machine).

The lesson from all this is either that Tim really values something fuzzy to do
with lunch, or that Quake 3 is so darn cool you can toss together maps in less
than an hour.  Okay, maybe knowing what Tim knows helps, so we're going to dissect
his brain for science and get him working as our own personal AI (John swears it's
possible) churning out 24 levels a day 24/7 until some odd Y2K bug causes him to
make every telephone in the world ring at once.  Oh wait, that was Lawnmower Man.


8/13/99

BTW.  You can search for Q3A Internet Servers using the keywords "ffa",
"tourney", "deathmatch", "team" and "tournament" in the Internet game
browser screen to only show specific types of maps.

8/3/99

Q3Test 1.08!!!  Go bring down your favorite Internet site.

Because it's once again a full download, we've included a new model
(Sarge) with this version of the test as a consolation prize.  You need
to select him from the console using the "model sarge" command.

7/21/99

Mac Users!  We're not ignoring you, we're just having a slight technical
problem with the Macintosh build right now.  BTW, I'm in love with that
new iBook!  When they ship that's going to be /the/ portable.

7/20/99

1.07 is out there.  Please try and find cheat exploits and report them to us!

Also, keep in mind that this is a test, and not the final product.  There's a lot
in the test which is very temporary, so while we've taken great pride in
putting out very solid test releases, we're still working hard on the final
product and very much appreciate your feedback (q3feedback@idsoftware.com)
in getting this product right for you - the players -

I get a bunch of feedback from people wanting this product to be more like
Quake 1 or Quake 2, while others look for us to innovate and make something
brand new.  Quake 3 is arcade deathmatch, nothing more and nothing less.  It's
not Quake 1 nor Quake 2, but does nod it's head in the direction of the online DM
version of both those products (and apparently pissing off both parties at the
same time).

Look to the next id product to give you the "brand new" gameplay and world.
Quake 3 Arena will keep basically with what you've seen and read about up
until now and it's now time to put this one to bed.

7/19/99

Not tonight.  We're fixing the cheat exploits.  Users who downloaded the current
build should expect a 3-5 meg update (so you don't have to download the
whole thing).

7/19/99

Okay.  More.  Must Sleep Soon.

We're testing a new version of the build right now that has some new stuff in it:

- the ; key now remains bound (for all you lefties)
- the timescale exploit has been plugged (again, actually this was in the last
  version of the test and a lot of people were silently using it)
- LAN servers display properly
- IPX is working
- the enabling cheat exploit has been fixed
- CPU time for servers should be nicer
- an exploit in the tourney map has been filled
- joystick support (there is no conspiracy here, but this might require more time
  to fix than just tonight)

We're looking to get win32/Macintosh out there, hopefully tonight, but probably
tomorrow by the time we're through checking all this out.

BTW, I finished DK2 (with Adrian screaming at me most of the time to build a bigger
torture chamber).

THAT GAME ROCKED!

7/19/99

SOCKS Proxy Support

There are five cvars that control it. They are only settable from the at init
time (from the OS command line).

+set net_socksEnabled 1
+set net_socksServer 
+set net_socksPort 
+set net_socksUsername
+set net_socksPassword

Please note that you use the address (name or IP number) of the SOCKS server
(firewall machine), NOT a Q3ATEST server. The port number defaults to 1080,
you should not need to change this.

It supports no authentication and username/password authentication method
(RFC-1929); it does NOT support GSS-API method (RFC-1961) authentication.

7/17/99

Some variable things we missed or are hard to find in the readme:

g_gametype

A value of 0 here indicates classic “Free For All”, a value of 1 indicates
“Tournament Play” and a value of 2 indicates “Team Deathmatch”.

So, to start a dedicated server in tournament mode, you would use:

quake3 +set dedicated 2 +set sv_zone tournaments +set g_gametype 1 +map q3tourney

The warmup time for tournament play is set with g_warmup.  A tournament
game is implicitly a one on one match, and further players are automatically
entered as spectators (note, when the game starts, all clients, including the
spectators respawn).  You can follow the players by using “team follow1”,
“team follow2”, and you can be a scoreboard by using “team scoreboard”.

We appear to have broken joystick support somewhat between the first IHV
drop and the final release of the test.  We’ll address that (so don’t start the
email bombardment on it!).

Expect the master server to be up and down over the weekend, now we have
protocol 38 servers out there in large numbers we’re able to tune that stuff so
it works a wee bit better.

Thanks for the support!

7/16/99

Okay, it's there (as I'm sure you all know).

I'll update tomorrow on how to set up servers in zones so you can easily
find/check/get to servers in groups.  It's a nifty new feature.  Until then
I'm sure you'll all be slamming each other down on Xian's excellent new
tournament map.

As usual, send bugs to q3feedback@idsoftware.com

7/16/99

A new build of q3test (win32) has been constructed in your workshop.
That's a little DK2 joke there...

We're hacking on it a bit before it's public, but it's looking good to go!  I'll
update my plan file once it's out and fill you all in on what's new.

Good bug find by Sherman Archibald today for all you Riva 128 owners.

7/16/99

You can all go to sleep.

7/9/99

So who’s the best at id?

We were playing Xian’s new tourney map (it will be in the next release of
q3test) within the company and Tim decided it would be a hoot to have a mini
id “tournament”.  We huddled in the observation room watching (and shouting
a great deal) match after match unfold in the new spectator modes until the final
game.  Everyone at id played and when they weren’t playing, they were watching
and cheering intently.

So who’s the best?

John “The Terminator” Carmack won quite handily, convincing us all further that
there really is some code in there that says “If (player==Alloy)”.  Second place
went to our esteemed CEO Todd “Hold Still Dammit While I Frag You” Hollenshead.
The rest of us where suitably humbled…(but we all claimed it’s because we work
so much).

It was a good test of the tournament code and great fun.  We will be doing the
same thing in-house again soon since the method led to some good changes.  Next
time however, there will be a few changes.  The emergency phone call to Todd from
Activision is already planned, and we’re thinking the arrival of a new Ferrari catalog
mid game for John will throw him off for the required microseconds to remove the
ball from his mouse.

So where’s that darn test?

Like the Great Prophet Zarquon said, “all sorts of things popped up”.  It’s still “soon”.
We need to merge code, test, and do a drop to IHVs to make sure everything is
hunky-dory with them.  The tourney map needs a wee bit more tweaking, and some
of the tourney code needs a little bit more work and testing.  There’s a lot of new
stuff in there!

BTW, Dungeon Keeper 2 is one of the best games I’ve played in a long time.  It's not
delayed the test at all.  Honest.

6/21/99

We had the Ion Storm guys over last week to play a little deathmatch, and while
I won’t say who w