Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.5!

Name: Graeme Devine
Email: zaphod@idsoftware.com
Description: Some Guy
Project: 
Last Updated: 01/21/2000 15:30:11 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1/21/97

Just read the PQ article.  Yes, that was an awesome game, I think it was a little
closer than the score indicated.  We're itching for a rematch!  I've never had
a game with so many excellents and impressives over my head, and for it to
take a full 50 minutes was something else, it was truly riveting.

BTW, I didn't mean we're not going to play CTF vs. anyone anymore, just that
we're not playing right now.  We have to do some work sometimes!

1/21/98

Okay, we're not playing CTF anymore.

1/20/98

id vs. the world ctf at 192.246.40.223.  id is red, world is blue.

1/17/99

Mr Elusive just put together some bot editing documents, the file is available
on our ftp server:

ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake3/tools/Q3ABotEdit.zip

We've been following the whole DLL vs. VM debates, and id is firmly on the side
of using VMs for game mods.  We will be addressing the "auto swap" VM
depending on which server you go to quickly (this was a bug) but I think we
will be strict on saying that people should use VMs over DLL files.  The next
executable release will probably have a warning screen come up that you will
need to agree to and click through if the game is about to load a DLL.

1/14/99

Okay.  I see a lot of people with “awaiting CD Key authorization” questions.

In almost all cases, this is due to the IP address of the authorize server
being wrong because the hosts file on the client has somehow been altered.
You can test to see if this is your problem by going to a DOS prompt and
typing the following:

ping authorize.quake3arena.com

If you get the following, then your system has an invalid entry somewhere
redirecting the authorize requests to the wrong IP address.

Reply from 127.0.0.1: bytes=32 time<10ms TTL=32
Reply from 127.0.0.1: bytes=32 time<10ms TTL=32
Reply from 127.0.0.1: bytes=32 time<10ms TTL=32
Reply from 127.0.0.1: bytes=32 time<10ms TTL=32
 
If you’re running Windows 95/98, then in almost every case editing the file
called “hosts” which resides in your c:\windows (or wherever you’ve installed
windows) directory and removing any lines that mention
authorize.quake3arena.com can fix this.

Various cracks and CD key gen utilities (none of which actually work) appear
to be the culprit, adjusting your hosts file without your knowledge or
consent.

1/12/99

I just finished making the Macintosh point beta release.  It'll be on the usual mirrors
soon.

12/21/99

Here's the cliffnotes version of most of the bugs we're looking at.  I'll make
the actual feature database available as HTML at somepoint soon so
everyone can take a look as to what issues we're addressing.

- New scoreboard.
- New team scoreboard
- Voting can change the gametype if the new map doesn’t support the current gametype
- Misc icon fixes
- Team overlay tidied up
- Spectators can go through doors
- Late player start on screen score display fixed
- Re-add mouselook
- Callvote nextmap
- Extra/different pakfile disconnect bug fixed
- Packetloss on the scoreboard
- Delay deferred loading of players until after death
- Server browser remembers “show full”/’show empty” status
- Server browser will not refresh on stopped lists
- Show IP address in server browser
- Compressed sound support
- JPEG from disk support
- Cache filefind results so we do not requery the filesystem every load
- Make 10.x.x.x and other public addresses not use auth server
- Protect CD key into a different file
- Improve overall error reporting to user
- Make sure everyone can command the bots
- Load/Save config re-added
- Bots don't start kill, hitnokill, or hitnodeath chats when there are nearby enemies
- Awaiting snapshot/gamestate issues resolved

12/21/99

While I've been out with the rest of the world trying to get a Barbie Cash
Register for my daughter, I have actually been doing a bit of work!

Activision's release QA process found two bugs in the Mac build that I felt
important enough to fix.  One bug was in the client, and the other in the
installer.

I fixed them both last night and Activision has a new master candidate.

I've heard sporadic reports that the Mac demo has problems, but I've yet
to be able to repeat that issue here.

I'll update my plan file today with the [long] list of things we're addressing
for the point release (yes, we've fixed the scoreboard).

12/16/99

Mac demo will be out tonight.  Mac full version is also complete.

12/14/99

Churn time.  We define “Churn” as the number of unique people that authorize
in a five-minute period.  At peak now we’re at around 1700 people in a five-minute
period, and at off peak we’re at 500.  Peak is around 5pm-11pm and off-peak is
8am until about noon.  As we get more international I expect this to level out.

We’ve been testing Q3A for Y2K compliance.  Here’s the results:

1.	Power failed due to Y2K glitch.

Q3A does not run if the power has failed because of a Y2K glitch.  Multiple
attempts to bring the computer on using a series of car batteries and two lines
of tin Q3A boxes did bring the computer up for a second, but the resulting fire
and damage to the building did not allow us to recommend this solution.  We
apologize to Rogue for using their office and cars to test this.

2.	Computer has crashed because of a Y2K glitch.

Q3A does not run if the computer has failed.  Installation of a different OS could be
the recommended solution, but the Y2K glitch had caused the computer to unrepentantly
jump out the window in a vain attempt to continue crashing.  We apologize to Rogue for
using their computers to complete this test.

3.	The world’s nuclear arsenal goes off because of a Y2K glitch.

Q3A does not survive a nuclear war, although the authorize server will continue to run.
Actually, we were unable to test this.  We’re just guessing.  We really don’t want to test
this out, so we’ll just it as golden that we’d be in big trouble if this happened.

4.	The Internet fails because of a Y2K glitch.

Q3A continues to run single player just fine, however, multi-player over the Internet could
not startup due to a general TCP/IP error.  With Ebay failing because of this as well the
entire US economy would freefall into the cold Atlantic Ocean allowing the alien race hiding
on the dark side of the moon to finally begin their insidious campaign of marketing 366 days
until 2001 memorabilia.

5.	The coffee machines around the world fail because of a Y2K glitch.

There is no possible worse scenario than this, the lack of Java in the world would seriously
undermine the Sun and cause the Earth to plummet into the cold and freeze the entire planet.
Starbucks would continue to thrive on selling everything else it produces and actually become
more profitable since there would be more throughput at the cash register, but since all the
customers would be dead they would relocate to a parallel dimension that voted to keep the
date 1999 for “just a few more years”.

6.	John Carmack fails because of a Y2K glitch.

We have 200 John Carmack clones hidden at secure sites around a small Idaho potato
farm (potatoes are considered Y2K compliant by all except the French, who insist that potatoes
will spontaneously explode at 4:31am, 1-1-00 ).  Don’t worry.  We’ve covered this base.

12/10/99

Okay.  I’m now officially overloaded on email.

We’re looking to get the tools out there very soon for creating Q3A modifications.
We’ll probably do a point release on the product before we release anything, and
we’ve been busy writing (gosh) documentation for the editor, shaders, etc.  I’m
really looking forward to seeing what you guys do with Q3A!

We’re now cracking down on people using key generators.  We stop accepting input
for a period of time from addresses that spam different keys to the authentication
server.  I see a lot of people running key generators right now; I’ve yet to see a single
one make a correct key.

We will also probably alter the key generation scheme on subsequent runs of the
product so we can verify mistyped keys within the client.  This remains our biggest
issue and if we can cure it right at the input step, then we’ll go a long way towards
easing this up.

12/08/99

Cracked servers are no longer listed through the master.  We're tracking these servers.  We
know your IP address, so if you have one running, I strongly suggest you take it down immediately.

12/06/99

Okay.  First off, don't run crack executables on your client!  All it's likely to do is grab
your CD key and send it off somewhere.  Authorization is server side, not client side.  We will
pursue and close down cracked servers with all available resources.

Secondly, CD keys are "leased", so if you log on through a dialup, play, then disconnect your
modem and log right back on, your CD key will have to timeout on your previous IP before you
can play again.  This timeout period is currently set at 5 minutes.

12/06/99

Okay.  Hacker attempts with invalid keys are outnumbering real keys by a factor of 2:1 or so.

Obviously this is somewhat validating the use of CD keys.

So far I've seen issues with the servers being able to see the auth server and clients using
IP forwarding not having the correct setup on the IP forwarding server.  If it's a Linux IP
forwarding machine use something like:

modprobe ip_masq_quake ports=26000,27000,27910,27960,27950,27951,27952

Modulating characters within a key sequence will not work.  It appears to work because when
you've validated your IP with an authentic CD key you've "leased" that IP address for a period
of time.  Even if you enter a junk string, that will work because your IP address is still valid.

The actual algorithm is a 64 bit DES key encryption method open to a very small window.  The
chances of coming up with a real valid key is in the range of billions and billions to one.  A random
pass through the available keys shows no sign of repeating sequences, it looks like good old chaos
(in fact, statisical math proves this).

The client has no idea if your key is really valid or not, it just checks on the correct characters
being entered.  

12/03/99

Why do I get booted back to the main menu?

It's because you've got a 1.11 client and you're trying to join a 1.09 (demo test) pure server.
Since the protocol # is exactly the same, you see all the 1.09 servers in the browser,
but when you try and join the game you get booted because you aren't "pure".

We'll switch off support for 1.09 listings in the browser once 1.11 demo is out for the
Mac and Linux.  Meanwhile there's not much I can do since I can't tell from the client
side if you're a 1.09 or 1.11 client asking for list of available servers.

12/03/99

IMPORTANT!!!!!

You MUST enter your CD key in lower case letters.  If you do this through the menu
it's automatic, but if you set it from the console, upper case letters will not work.

IMPORTANT!!!!!

12/03/99

If you get a CD Key error, please check to make sure you have the CD Key correctly
entered.  I've seen a few people go by and be denied on what looks like a valid key
that's just been typed in wrong.

12/03/99

The demo has gone final and will be available through Sandpiper in a few hours.

I've gotten a lot of feedback from people regarding the use of authentication servers. 
Yes, John Carmack has a nice car from his hard work, but unfortunately software piracy
has become such a serious issue that we need to use schemes such as CD keys to protect
our future sales.  Games cost large sums of money to make and market, and if you want to
have software developers continue to develop games then piracy, understanding it, and
addressing it, needs to be part of the development process.

Digital satellite receivers each ship with a little crypto card to uniquely number the
machine – Dish Network and DirecTV make sure they get their money every month!  DVD
encryption swayed Hollywood to produce high quality digital content that we as nerds
lavished our money on, piracy of DVDs has not been an issue because of such encryption,
but now this has been broken and may affect the future of DVD, already it’s reported that
DVD Audio has been delayed.  When Intel introduced a software accessible serial number
with the Pentium III it was quickly disabled because of public backlash, yet it’s very function
was to protect against piracy and allow security.

So with computers we’re stuck with freedom, which isn’t all that bad.  How many of us (Linux
crowd hush please) run 100% piracy free machines?  Does occasional use count?  If I only
used it once to repartition my drive do I have to pay for Partition Magic?  Isn’t Winzip part
of Microsoft?  We’re hypocrites if we cheer the Government ruling against Microsoft for including
so much software free in their OS that we otherwise would use and never pay for.  Then again,
I love Java, Macs and OpenGL.  There are corporations out there who work hard to make sure
I’m a minority.

Is piracy of id products the only way the community has prospered, grown and sustained itself
all these years?  It’s true a certain number of you will always pirate a game and never make the
purchase.  But a whole bunch of you are raving, fanatical loyal id fans with money in one hand
and EB on speed dial in the other to see if Q3A is in stock.  If you help the community by helping
to stamp out piracy, then I think you’ll see that the community will be just fine and who knows,
software prices might fall, Doom 2000 might come out, or the Y2K bug may not burn us all.

So yes.  Use a SOCKS server (we will authenticate multiple CD Keys off a single IP), open up those
ports on your firewall (you can resolve master.quake3arena.com and just use that IP address),
but please don’t belie our intentions.  We’ll work extremely hard, 24 hours a day, to make
everything in Q3A work flawlessly for you, but we’ll also work on another game with the money
we get from sales of Q3A, and by the time it’s done we may be able to release on DVD-ROM and
piracy will be a non-issue.  But alas, I fear, if it’s there, it will be copied.

These are my views, although I think id also frowns at piracy.

12/02/99

In preparation for the full release.

The motd/master/auth servers run on ports 27950, 27951, 27952.  The default game server
is on port 27960.  If you’re firewalled against these ports you’ll need to get unfirewalled to
play the game.  If we work on the servers from now on we’ll notify the community and schedule
the maintenance for the slowest period of the day (currently around 6am Dallas time).

We have what we consider a “gold” build of the demo.  We’re putting it through the final push
of QA at Activision before releasing it since this build is going to be more or less prevalent
throughout the known universe.

11/23/99

Activision has asked to test the full authorize server, so it's now up and running.  I can quite
understand this.  I'm working to get the full demo out the door as quick as possible.

11/23/99

I’m working on updating the full demo today.  We’ll bash on it a bit and get it out there over
the next few days.  Once it’s out there I’ll be updating the cdkey authorize server to the final
version.  Unfortunately this is not compatible with the demo test, so you’ll need to upgrade to
either the full version of Q3A (woo hoo!) or download the new demo.

Oh, and I'm going to finish Homeworld darn it.

11/20/99

We're at RC2.  Life is good.

11/18/99

I'm debugging some stuff on the authorize server (and using you guys as testers on it).
If you can't authorize for the next few hours please be patient!

11/17/99

Okay, the Macintosh Test build is going up real soon now.  It's all built and working well.  I'm
really happy with the way we're working on the Mac.  I've been building the new id servers
on a G3 using Java and it's been a real nice change from the PC.

You'll need the newest version of OpenGL for the Macintosh, which came out today.  It's
available at http://asu.info.apple.com/swupdates.nsf/artnum/n11545.  Go download that
while we're coordinating on getting the Mac build out there through Sandpiper.

BTW.  There's been over 1 million downloads of the Win32 build!!!

11/16/99

We've got a debug server up on 192.246.40.115, if people could connect to it and bash on it
that would be great.

11/15/99

It's out there.  We're aware of some issues which are documented in the readme, otherwise
I expect a lot of you to be missing many hours of sleep tonight!

11/14/99

Quake 3 Arena demo test should be out tonight.  Watch the skies!

Just so we’re all sure.  This isn’t the general demo.  If all goes well we’ll
upload the general demo in a few days.

The demo contains four maps (q3dm1, q3dm7 (q3test1), q3dm17 (q3test2)
& q3tourney2 (q3tourney) and six characters (Sarge, Visor, Major, Grunt,
Daemia, & Stripe).  Bots are in there on five difficulty settings (from “I can win!”
to “nightmare!”).

11/6/99

I asked everyone to come up with Tips Of the Day for Q3A, it was a serious endeavor
to get some cool tips into the product (a fun game is trying to match the id employee
with the quote).

Here are some gems from the masters:

Often there are secrets hidden below the hellfog.

Every map has a special exit. Chat with the bots to find it.

If you get negative 10000 frags something cool happens.

Save money by calling our tech support from the office phone. 

To open secret level press the reset button immediately after completing Tier 5.

Run over the armor backwards to obtain optional armor pants.

Ain't nothin' like four bare feet in a bed. Unless you have five bare feet in a bed in
which case one belongs to an amputee not a freak with three feet.

Save water. Shower with a friend.

Never eat spinach with a stranger.

You call me Francis, I'll kill ya.

Don't look at the glass eye.

Try and keep Klesk from getting the railgun on q3tourney3

Q3A ownz jooo!

Strafe to the right, strafe to the left... now everybody jump around, jump around.

Monkey thinks bandannas more ripe at top of the tree.

Take the blue pill; you aren't the one.

Complain a lot about lag, LPBs, and packet loss; you'll still lose, but you'll sound
smarter.

Bind forward to control, jump to alt, and attack to delete.  Then amaze everyone
with your running jump shots!

When about to lose a big game, throw the Big Red Switch then come back on
and bitch about your ISP.

Always hit your enemy and never let them hit you.

Never tell Adrian that you hit his Viper.

The Red Fog is bad for your health.

11/2/99

The MOTD server and master server will be up and down over the next few days, if you don't
get a response that's probably the reason why.

9/29/99

Ah, grappling hook hoopla – when I read about the hoopla over UT grapple CTF I knew we’d
have a similar impact (BTW, believe it or not, there is room for both games in the universe!). 
The grapple code is still going to be in Q3A (through bot reachability and so forth), it’s just
not on the maps we’re shipping with the product.  The CTF maps we have in there are designed
for non-grapple use.  CTF and grapple are not tied implicitly together.

Mr. Elusive (aka Jan Paul) is over here from The Netherlands helping finalize the game.  He is
of course the famed author of the Gladiator bot for Quake II.  As some of you have been
guessing he’s been working with John Cash on the bots in Q3A.  We’re very pleased to have
Jan’s expertise on Q3A.

9/25/99

A few of you have asked about the message of the day text.  It’s giving you your exe
startup number since last Monday.  So basically, we’ve had over 2 million Quake 3 Arena
games start worldwide since 9/20/99.  That works out to around 4 games every second.

9/2/99

I see a lot of people are playing with nude reptiles!

We are not doing a Matrix game.  When we finish Q3A we'll start on the next
project.  We will try and fit the words "welcome to my underground lair" into
the next game, mostly because we think Steed would be good at making fembots.

Okay, that's more of a suggestion than a truth.  We'll probably do something
completely different based on stories of the Quake 3 Bus and the Nevada desert.

9/1/99

Some of you have commented on the master server being a bit odd right now.
It's actually running just fine, it's just responding to queries for protocol
41, which is not entirely compatible with protocol 40.  Only servers with
people on there will actually show up.  You can force showing the empty
servers with the keyword "empty", but this isn't so useful since in 1.08 you
can't combine that with game types (e.g. you can't say "empty tourney").  For
completeness's sake, you can also say "full".  But heck, if you type in "nude
reptiles", you can scan that too and get exactly zip.

All of this is of course fixed in the new test and browsing gametypes,
keywords, and so forth is easier than ever.  You'll swoon.  Trust me.

For those of you, and there's a bunch of you, who believe that our previous
efforts had better network support than 1.08, we've set up servers here for
you to get side to