[cdrom.com]

Login: jschuur        			Name: joost schuur
Directory: /home/jschuur            	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
Last login Fri May 23 13:37 (PDT) on ttyp1 from 206.102.110.1
No Mail.
Mail forwarded to: jschuur@onlinemagic.com
Project: Quake and Unreal Archive Maintainer.
Plan:
s l i p g a t e   c e n t r a l - t a n g l e d

Spring '92, Ireland

May 23th, 1997
----------------
off to m3...


May 20th, 1997
----------------
I have a plea to everyone creating addons for Quake today. 
If you've released something, please remember to upload them to
ftp.cdrom.com in the /pub/idgames2/incoming directory. Releasing
them on your web page and announcing them to the news sites, hoping
to increase your hits, is _not_ the same. You get a much better
coverage. Your files will be carried by dozens of mirror sites
world wide.

This applies to utilities and levels/Quake C/whatnot. If anyone 
has any particular reason why they do not want to upload their
works to cdrom.com (aside from limited beta releases of course)
contact me, I'd be interested in finding those out.


May 18th, 1997
----------------
Ohhhhh... Cool sunglasses for Slipgate Central in Yahoo's Quake
section at last. Gee thanks, it only took them half a year to
realize how good the site is.

May 9th, 1997
----------------
m3. be there, or be a rectangular thing.


May 8th, 1997
----------------
Wanted: Alternate universe with 48 hours per day where you never 
have to sleep. Willing to trade for slightly used, hectic 24 hour per
day, 5-7 hour sleep period universe. Wusses and wannabes need not 
apply.

I'm so mail backlogged again, any mail considering a site reevaluation
for Slipgate Central has been temporarily stuck in a seperate folder.

Quake 2. Some of those screenshots look way cool (especially 
quake44b.jpg and quake34b.jpg). Someone created an alt.games.quake2
the other day thogugh. Why? What's the point? We went through a
long discussion and voting period for the rec.games.computer.quake
groups and they speciafically cover all Quake engine games. Don't
use the alt group please.

Slipgate Central redesign underway. I hope you like the colour blue ;)
I'll be launching a survey soon with some prizes to give away to
get some feedback from you guys.


April 28th, 1997
----------------
I was asked today if there'll be a Hexen 2 FTP area on ftp.cdrom.com.
A quick reminder: /pub/idgames2 houses all games using the Quake (or
Quake 2) engine, including  Quake, Quake 2, Hexen 2, the Ion Storm/
Hipnotic games and Duke Nukem Forever. Where applicable, new 
subdirectories will be created, e.g. levels/hexen2 and quakec/hexen2.

Lots of backlog as far as mail/Slipgate Central submissions/cdrom.com
uploads and even tangled goes. Now that I've settled down in in The 
City That Never Sleeps, I'll work on that. So many cool movies out
there though, it's really tempting to just leave the office right now
(Still haven't seen Volcano yet).

Quakecast on thursday with me on the show again! I'm looking forward to
it.


April 23rd, 1997
----------------
New York City, here I come. Starting this friday i'll be in the 
Big Apple for about 2 months on a business trip. I'm so psyched. 
NYC is way cool.

I will of course have full net access there ;)


April 22st, 1997
----------------
How could i have forgotten this Eleventh Tip on making a successful 
gameing website:

   Talk about your dog a lot and how it made a big mess on the
   carpet. Garuanteed to get you a job as webpimp with a games
   company.


April 21st, 1997
----------------
This is is one mother of an update. It probably deserves it's
own page on Slipgate Central soon. Here goes:

Top Ten Tips For A Successful Games Web Site

 1 - Don't rely on others too much

     The Net is big and 'friends' are often made very quickly
     on online chat environments or via email without really
     knowing them. Especially young, over enthusiastic netizens
     often want to get involved without knowing what they're
     getting themselves into. Modern means of communication can
     often hide a person's true personality.

     Help is always a good thing, but be skeptical about the
     people you hookup with. Check out the work they've done in
     the past and talk to others who've dealt with them in the
     past.

     Don't let others steal your fame either. Be sure you get 
     the credit for your own work (and give others credit for 
     theirs). 

     If you have found people you think you can trust to cooperate
     with, keep in touch with them regularly about what you're up
     to, but always keep in mind that their help may become 
     unavailable at any given moment.

 2 - Do I really want to do this?

     Think long and hard before you launch a site. Running
     a good web site can take a large chunk of your time. If
     you have real life commitments (or expect to have them in
     a few weeks or months time) you might want to think twice
     about what at the time seems like 'a cool idea'. Don't
     dissapoint people by launching a cool new site, only to
     take it down soon after.

     It might be a good idea if you plan on running a news 
     orientated site, to run it in private for a week or two
     first, to see if you can keep up with it on a regular
     basis.

     Get help if possible (but see tip #1 first)

 3 - Keep your site up to date. 

     Make sure the information on your site is still correct
     and update your site with new related content as it 
     becomes available. The more often people find new 
     information on your site first, the more often they'll
     come back.

     Regularly check all external links and see if they still 
     work.

 4 - Plan ahead

     If your web site becomes successful, it's bound to expand.
     don't launch a site at http://www.wibble.com/~user/, but
     rather create a dedicated page or directory for it first.
     You might want to use your actual homepage for something
     else later.

     But don't go registering a domain name right away. Who
     knows how long the site will be up. A URL like
     http://www.wibble.com/mysite/ or even something like
     http://www.wibble.com/~me/mysite/ is just as good in the
     beginning.

 5 - Banner ads? Think twice.

     In most cases, banner ads don't generate enough 
     impressions to make any money at all and only disrupt
     the design of a page. Don't launch a page right away
     with an ugly banner ad for commercial products right
     away, expecting to get rich quick. You won't. You'll
     get much more satisfaction knowing your page has
     helped people learn something usefull.

     Very few gaming sites actually get hit enough to make
     ads worthwhile, and generally they carry plenty of
     content to deserve it.

 6 - Content is king

     The web is about providing information to others. When
     developing the style and design of your site, don't forget
     the actual information you're trying to bring across.
     Avoid download intensive pages with little actual content.

     Stay away from useless things like guestbooks, java chat 
     applets and embedded sound files.

 7 - Be consistent in style and navigation

     Make your site easy to navigate by using common navigational
     elements on each page. Make it intuitive how to wander from
     section to section on your site. Ask a friend who hasn't 
     seen the site yet to have a look and watch them as they 
     browse the site. Keep the overall design and layout clean
     and professional too and try and stay away from tacky 
     background images and hard to read colour schemes.

     And remember. Frames aren't always a necessity.

 8 - Advertise properly

     Find out who the target audience for your web site is and
     advertise accordingly. If your site covers Quake editing
     e.g. advertise on a Quake editing related mailing list.
     Make sure people link to you and provide them with buttons
     or banners that they can use. Actively contact related sites
     and (politely) ask them to link to you.

     Register with the appropriate search engines and use
     meta tags in your document header to define keywords and
     descriptions.

 9 - Find a niche area

     There are already over a thousand Quake related web sites.
     Find and area that hasn't already been covered dozens or
     even hundreds of times before. Your web site should have
     unique content that people will remember you for and drive
     them back to your site again and again. Often in depth
     coverage or a new angle to material already covered by 
     other web sites are a good idea for a new site. Examples
     are humorous Quake news sites like the New Vore Times, or
     Total Conversion news sites.

10 - Know your media

     Try and stay up todate in the latest web developements. Learn
     to author good, clean HTML using a plain Ascii text editor
     like notepad or emacs that will display properly on a wide 
     variety of platforms. Use img width/height attributes and alt 
     tags. Don't exclude people because of the browser they are using.
     Client side scripting can be used to detect people's browser
     types and generate HTML accordingly. Offer a noframes
     alternative.

That's all for now. Boy, I have so much more to say, I ought to write
a book about this.


April 16th, 1997
----------------
tangled. it's called art. get with it. it's daily.

things not present at my home (i moved in over 2 months ago):

- furniture
- telephone
- computer
- cable
- any food item with an expiration date in this century, 
  or that needs to be kept in the fridge.


April 14th, 1997
----------------
Get tangled.
What do you think it is?

April 10th, 1997
----------------

   totally un quake/unreal related .plan update. i just came back 
from a microsoft presentation on msie 4.0 here in london (well, i
just wobbled back from the dog house, kennigtons's finest pub, but
before that i was at the ms do, honest) and it's scary how much
cool stuff they've added in 4.0. dynamic html is totally awesome, 
we'll be seing some great sites with it soon. don't get me wrong, 
i'm a netscape man myself and i still use it as my default browser 
(what _is_ the problem with communicator and the pq page anyway?), 
but i fear more and more that Bill is bringing out some cool shit,
and making life harder for web authoring businesses like the one i 
work for (online magic). soon, we'll not only have to author for
two brosers (msie and ns), but also for webtv and msie 'channels'.
endless possibilities, i only hope they could all support the same
features.

   rest assured though, slipgate central will always remain 
viewable for all major web browsers. if i ever decide to support 
new html extentions, all content will be backwards compatible and
you won't miss a thing.

April 6th, 1997
---------------

   hope you like the picture. so few pictures of me have 
been taken the past few years and this is still the best one.

   most of the database is reconstructed now, so your searches 
should work again over the entire site list. some minor entries 
need reconstructing but that'll have to wait until tomorrow.

   i've got the design and feature list for one of my projects 
pretty much worked out. it's not really as prestigious as 
slipgate central, but will certainly be of use to the quake/unreal 
gaming community. as always, content will be king, and there'll be 
plenty of tables with background cell colours *grin*. i'm thinking 
of getting some resources in from another site for this, but that 
site doesn't know about it yet, so i won't mention the name. 
*double grin*. i actually came across another site today that does 
what this project will do, but not quite in the style which i would
have done it in.

                            Joost Schuur (jschuur@onlinemagic.com)
                                            http://www.nuqneH.org/
                                   http://www.slipgatecentral.com/
                                 ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/idgames2/
                                   ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/unreal/