Login: jschuur        			Name: joost schuur
Directory: /home/jschuur            	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
On since Sun Mar  8 09:32 (PST) on ttyp8, idle 0:18, from 209.117.180.1
No Mail.
Mail forwarded to: jschuur@onlinemagic.com
Project: Quake and Unreal Archive Maintainer.
Plan:
s l i p g a t e   c e n t r a l - t a n g l e d

Spring '92, Ireland

March 8th, 1998
---------------

I've long kept this opinion for myself, but I think the time has 
come now for someone to say this in public and my humble little .plan
file (which certainly doesn't get as much exposure as some of the
others out there) seems just the right place.

Aren't we all tired of a certain 3D News page constantly making
excuses for poor news coverage? Days go by without an update, then
all of a sudden a long winding, whining excuse why a big piece of
news in the Quake editing scene hadn't been posted. Well guess what?
Planet Quake too received ample forewarning of the Worldcraft 1.6
patch and we managed to post about it quite quickly. And this is not
just an isolated case. Infrequent updates, blatent requests for free
stuff and glaringly obvious elitism have reduced what was once a big
name in the news scene to a joke that's only worth following for it's
comical value.

If you can't stand the heat, then stay out of the frying pan. If
you can't properly fulfill the needs of the Quake community by
adequately reporting on news from the scene in a reliable way,
then for God's sake, stop resting on your laurels and your 
occasional trips to games companies. Constant name dropping
of your 'good friend soandso' and your 'buddies at soandso' won't
help cover up the fact that your site simply doesn't have the 
content to keep up with the developments in the Quake scene that
other sites who take this job much more seriously seem to be able 
to do just fine.

Your high time is over, take the consequences and please remove 
yourself from the news race.

Those of you seeking real news, please consider this: ask yourself
what news site you visit again and again and again, because you've
grown to count on it for the information you need in the quality you
expect and the timeliness you can rely on. Whether it's Blue's or 
Planet Quake or even another site, don't be fooled by hype or people
who've been in the biz for 2 years. Stick with who actually delivers.

Comments on this .plan update are welcome and encouraged.


March 7th, 1998
---------------

Since Stomped is still blocking all of my mail to any of their 
email accounts, I'll have to resort to my .plan file to comment
on Process' suspicions that someone impersonated him on Quakecast.

The last time Process was on was a few months ago to talk about
Respawn. We did talk about Respawn a few weeks back, but noone
claimed to be him. Unless someone was refering to one of the
Quakecast spoof sites out there, no impersonation occured.


Febuary 28th, 1998
------------------

I'm amazed at how easy it was to find an apartment here in New York
after all. I'd basically been my old slacker self and postponed the
apartment hunt until the last possible week (I had to move out by
the end of the month where I was) and after looking at only 3 places
I found a nice studio apartment on 12th street for a really good
deal ($915 a month!). This weekend i get to furnish it, move my few
belonings across town and buy all that cool stuff I keep seing at 
Urban Outfitters (which btw is a very cool shop). Anyone looking
for an apartment in New York, look up 'York Real Estate Inc.' on
Broadway between 18th and 19th, these guys ar really decent brokers!

On another note, the levels/team_fortress dir on ftp.cdrom.com's 
idgames2 archive has grown awefully big lately and I'd like to 
subdivide it alphabetically like the regular deathmatch dir. I
realize this will break a lot of links pointing to that dir, but
even with the release of Quake II, the number of TF levels is still 
growing strong (no doubt due to TF II not being out yet). The switch 
will probably happen tomorrow and be announced on PlanetQuake's news 
section.

I also finally got a chance to play The Neverhood, a zany claymation
puzzle game that I picked up from a bargain bin for $20 2 weeks ago.
While an 'older' game (almost a year old), it's a hell of a lot of fun
and followup for the Playstation, 'Skullmonkeys' has just recently been
released.


Febuary 12th, 1998
-----------------

SHAMELESS SELF PROMOTION: Woo! Kickass Planet Quake redesign! Run, don't
walk there now:

http://www.planetquake.com

Finally a site that doesn't use a black background.

Oh and double Woo! Beatdown LAN party at PQ headquarters this weekend.
I'm psyched!

Joost Schuur (jschuur@onlinemagic.net)