Login: jschuur        			Name: joost schuur
Directory: /home/jschuur            	Shell: /usr/local/bin/tcsh
On since Tue Mar 10 11:29 (PST) on ttypg, idle 0:26, from 209.117.180.1
No Mail.
Mail forwarded to: jschuur@onlinemagic.com
Project: Quake and Unreal Archive Maintainer.
Plan:
>
Spring '92, Ireland

March 10th, 1998
----------------

To prove that I actually practice what I preach, I've decided to
shut Slipgate Central down temporarily until I've completed
integrating the backend database maintenance interface and improved
search that I wrote at work for soccersearch.com. I've been tracking
links for the past 3 months and they just need to be fed back into 
the database, which should take a few weeks (but i make no garuantees
as far as the timeline goes.

Slipgate Central will return.

Incidentally, does anyone know a good sector based disk editing
utility for Windows NT NTFS partitions besides DiskProbe or Norton
Utils?


March 9th, 1998
---------------

The response from my last update has sure been interesting. I think
I know have a tiny inkling of what Paul Steed must go through after 
some of his .plan updates. Updates like this are meant to be an
informal way of expressing one's opinion, if it was meant to be 
anything else, I would have stuck it in the Planet Quake news page.
Opinions are also notoriously  easy to misunderstand, especially
when condensed into a few paragraphs, and people don't stop to give
one the benefit of the doubt that one has misunderstood the essence
and purpose of a .plan update. It seems it takes years to build up
a reputation and for some people a few lines of text can change that.
I'd like to ask that these people think a second time about what I
meant.

For the record, I stand by what I said, and no, I'm not jealous of 
this site in any way. Almost all of the feedback I've received 
(thanks everyone !) was extremely encouraging and supportive. No 
word from the webmaster in question himself though, I would have 
loved to hear from him. (Since his site blocks mail, I can't email 
him personally). There was no other motive involved in my .plan
update and it certainly wasn't meant to glorify Planet Quake (I think
our work speaks for itself). I'd noticed a trend that many other
people I had spoken with noticed as well, and decided to express
my beef on the subject. Maybe it'll help the site come to terms with
where it's going, maybe not.

The main complaint seems to be that the 'victim' of my 'attack' has a
full time job and can't keep up as well as other sites can. What it
boils down to is he was once considered part of a triumvirate of news
sites in the Quake scene, thus bringing with this, he has the 
_responsibility_ of maintaining the quality of his site, or admitting
he can't cope with it and either changing his approach of news coverage
or shutting it down. Anything else would simply be wasting lots of
people's time, who visit his site for news. This site even chose to
_expand_ it's scope recently.

I don't expect to change people's opinions with this update. There are
strong factions of people agreeing and disagreeing with what I've said.
Nevertheless everyone is entitled to voice their opinion on a subject.
(or at least in many parts of the world).

Btw, I ate a bagel this morning. With people at work. In our
conference room. With cream cheese.


March 8th, 1998
---------------

I've long kept this opinion for myself, but I think the time has 
come now for someone to say this in public and my humble little .plan
file (which certainly doesn't get as much exposure as some of the
others out there) seems just the right place.

Aren't we all tired of a certain 3D News page constantly making
excuses for poor news coverage? Days go by without an update, then
all of a sudden a long winding, whining excuse why a big piece of
news in the Quake editing scene hadn't been posted. Well guess what?
Planet Quake too received ample forewarning of the Worldcraft 1.6
patch and we managed to post about it quite quickly. And this is not
just an isolated case. Infrequent updates, blatant requests for free
stuff and glaringly obvious elitism have reduced what was once a big
name in the news scene to a joke that's only worth following for it's
comical value.

If you can't stand the heat, then stay out of the kitchen. If
you can't properly fulfill the needs of the Quake community by
adequately reporting on news from the scene in a reliable way,
then for God's sake, stop resting on your laurels and your 
occasional trips to games companies. Constant name dropping
of your 'good friend soandso' and your 'buddies at soandso' won't
help cover up the fact that your site simply doesn't have the 
content to keep up with the developments in the Quake scene that
other sites who take this job much more seriously seem to be able 
to provide just fine.

Your high time is over, take the consequences and please remove 
yourself from the news race.

Those of you seeking real news, please consider this: ask yourself
what news site you visit again and again and again, because you've
grown to count on it for the information you need in the quality you
expect and the timeliness you can rely on. Whether it's Blue's or 
Planet Quake or even another site, don't be fooled by hype or people
who've been in the biz for 2 years. Stick with who actually delivers.

Comments on this .plan update are welcome and encouraged.


March 7th, 1998
---------------

Since Stomped is still blocking all of my mail to any of their 
email accounts, I'll have to resort to my .plan file to comment
on Process' suspicions that someone impersonated him on Quakecast.

The last time Process was on was a few months ago to talk about
Respawn. We did talk about Respawn a few weeks back, but noone
claimed to be him. Unless someone was refering to one of the
Quakecast spoof sites out there, no impersonation occured.


Febuary 28th, 1998
------------------

I'm amazed at how easy it was to find an apartment here in New York
after all. I'd basically been my old slacker self and postponed the
apartment hunt until the last possible week (I had to move out by
the end of the month where I was) and after looking at only 3 places
I found a nice studio apartment on 12th street for a really good
deal ($915 a month!). This weekend i get to furnish it, move my few
belonings across town and buy all that cool stuff I keep seing at 
Urban Outfitters (which btw is a very cool shop). Anyone looking
for an apartment in New York, look up 'York Real Estate Inc.' on
Broadway between 18th and 19th, these guys ar really decent brokers!

On another note, the levels/team_fortress dir on ftp.cdrom.com's 
idgames2 archive has grown awefully big lately and I'd like to 
subdivide it alphabetically like the regular deathmatch dir. I
realize this will break a lot of links pointing to that dir, but
even with the release of Quake II, the number of TF levels is still 
growing strong (no doubt due to TF II not being out yet). The switch 
will probably happen tomorrow and be announced on PlanetQuake's news 
section.

I also finally got a chance to play The Neverhood, a zany claymation
puzzle game that I picked up from a bargain bin for $20 2 weeks ago.
While an 'older' game (almost a year old), it's a hell of a lot of fun
and followup for the Playstation, 'Skullmonkeys' has just recently been
released.


Febuary 12th, 1998
-----------------

SHAMELESS SELF PROMOTION: Woo! Kickass Planet Quake redesign! Run, don't
walk there now:

http://www.planetquake.com

Finally a site that doesn't use a black background.

Oh and double Woo! Beatdown LAN party at PQ headquarters this weekend.
I'm psyched!

Joost Schuur (jschuur@onlinemagic.net)