Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
Hi there Ghost Planet residents.  I'm a 3D modeler/animator on the Prey team.  I have to warn you that you're not going to find any info in here about the game, or any ego trips and "Plan" Wars with anyone else either.  I mean, c'mon people, we're only making video games, not curing cancer or saving the planet.  I'm really just using this file as an occational creative vacation from polygon-land.  I have no idea what this story is going to be about, but I'll just add a few lines now and then and see where it leads.  Also, forget emailing with how I should stick to game developing, I know I suck at writing and there's no way in hell I'm quitting my day job! ;)  'Nuff said....
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"You wanna piece of me?!"  He shouting up in my face.
"What?"  
"You wanna peice of me, punk?!"  He slammed back with a bit of a smirk on his lips.  I started toward the mall exit, "Not today, got things to do."  One of which was not getting  publicly embarassed by a cocky 14 year old at that damn Tekken machine.  I heard the faint sound of  loose change finding the innards of the game as another victim stepped forward.  On the way out, I passed an old couple waiting on the bench near the doors.   They starred longingly toward the parking lot.  They were waiting for their son to return from the sea of cars and rescue them back to the pathetic nursing home, or perhaps to be dropped off at yet another reluctant relative's house...waiting for the crowded bus back to the 'burbs...waiting for the end.  Who knows? 
I hit the sunshine and noticed the conneticut air had held back it's usual sting for the second straight day.  Maybe we'll actually get some good weekend weather for a change.  Somehow, we always end up in the hills, fighting off a frigid cold front that doesn't know it's not winter yet.  Doesn't matter really, I just needed a quick change of scenery.
"There's someone else with the right idea," I thought as a loaded cherrokee passed in the opposite direction.  
I took the cracked road around the schoolyard.  As usual, it was littered with little bodies filling the yellow monsters or waiting again for a late parent.  I pulled to the curb and spotted Kenny.  He was being chased by the little Thompson girl.  She finally caught up and handed out her sentence of a kiss on his red cheeks.  I swung open the door.
"So when the wedding big guy?"
"Never!" He resounded with total confidence and plobbed into the seat.
"If you want, I'll see if she can come up to the cabin with us."
"No way!  She's...a dork."  He folded his arms while I smiled.
"Ok, ok.  Just put on your seat belt and tell mom to lighten up our your roughage." I held my nose.
"Huh?....shutup."
Once again I weaved through the minefield of america's future and steered for the highway.
Maybe Natalie would be ready by the time we got home.  Fat chance of that.
	
    