Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
(Part Two)   Hi there Ghost Planet residents.  I'm a 3D modeler/animator on the Prey team.  I have to warn you that you're not going to find any info in here about the game, or any ego trips and "Plan" Wars with anyone else either.  I mean, c'mon people, we're only making video games, not curing cancer or saving the planet.  I'm really just using this file as an occational creative vacation from polygon-land.  I have no idea what this story is going to be about, but I'll just add a few lines now and then and see where it leads.  Also, forget emailing with how I should stick to game developing, I know I suck at writing and there's no way in hell I'm quitting my day job! ;)  'Nuff said....
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TWO

The weathered carport greeted us with the same silent comfort it's shown for many years.  I forget just how long mom and dad have lived here.  Definitely longer than our family's average residence.  We seemed to drift with the economic winds for much of the 80's.  Kentucky, Oregon, Missouri, Texas, even Alaska for a brief stint.  I'm glad we ended up here and my parents could settle down for a change.  That fact comforted me. I hated to think about it, but it was getting closer to the point of me worrying about their welfare instead of the way it used to be.  
"Can I go fishing this time, Peyton?"
"C'mon, Kenny.  We'll see how you feel about it later"  A few summers ago, he fell in and got the holy shit scared out of him.  First thing he wanted to do was to get swimming lessons.  He still got freaked out whenever he got out on the lake again.  Doesn't stop him from trying it though.  I really have to admire the little guy.  He never gives up.  Not that he's a stubborn brat, but something inside just keeps pushing him.  I'm not sure were he gets it from.  I haven't been around much the past few years and lord knows it's not our parents.  Must be the tv. 
I put the keys on the wooden rack near the door,  "Hey, anyone here?"  I had Kenny go clean up and then walked around to the backyard.  "There you guys are."
"Yep here we are."  My mom and Natalie were stuffing old boxes through the storm doors into the basement.  Man, I hated that place.  Looked right out of a Hitchcock film.  When we first moved in, I half expected to find Mrs. Norman Bates waiting for me.  
My mom closed the doors and turned the rusted lock.  "Just looking for an extra flashlight for you guys"  She informed me.
"No luck huh?"
"NoI really think you should pick one up on your way though"  
"Naw, who needs light anyway"  I smiled.
"You'll think that until you don't have one smartypants" 
Natalie looked up at me with a  "lets get out of here, pleeeeease" kind of look.  Her and my mother got along fine, but without me there as a catalyst, an hour could go by without conversation.  Too much of a generation gap I suppose. 
"So then, Kenny's changing and then I guess we're outta here"  I held the back door open as we went inside.  The floor was cluttered with the usual boxes of summer crap that nobody needed anymore.  It would make it's annual fall pilgrimage to the attic.  Somehow, more boxes ended up there every year and we seemed to pull out again in the spring.  I still claimed ownership of several of those that I never picked up when I moved into my place.
My mom went around the corner into the kitchen.  I grabbed Natalie and landed a quick kiss.  Been thinking about doing that all day.  She smiled and looked toward the kitchen.
"Peyton, stop it! " She wispered and held my hand.  My parents were a bit oldschool and Natalie was one of the few girlfriends  I took home to show off.  She always felt that she needed to act "proper" in order to impress my mom then.  I didn't really care.  I haven't had to live with them for 5 years now.
"You two want a couple of sandwiches?  I know Kenny will get hungry and I already made him one."
"Um, sure mom.  Why not?" I went upstairs to grab Kenny.
"Yes, that'd be great"  Natalie answered with her polite charm and then turned to give me a flirtatious smirk.  Damn she was alluring when she did that.
The carpet was tearing along the edges of each step.  The typical creaky noise accompanied up to the second floor.  I noticed the bathroom light on and swung the door open.  "Alright, time to hit it, Ken"  
He was starring into the cracked mirror, his pudgy fingers reaching out to meet their reflection.  He looked a bit dazed.  
"Yo.  What are doing?  You look like a dork.  Now come on."  I lifted him off the counter and placed him on the tiled floor.  He slowly walked into his room and returned with his wornout Transformers backpack I gave to him.  
"Got underwear?  Not just pajamas?" 
"huhyeah. I got 'em"  He started down the stairs. 
 I turned off the bathroom light and closed the door.

I loved driving the Blazer.  It was big, crude and rugged.  Pretty much all things my Dodge wasn't.  Plus it was perfect for trips like this.  Kenny fell asleep in the pile of sleeping bags and gear, while Natalie snuggled up to me in the front seat.  The crisp yellow leaves filled the paved road, and swirled in our wake.  I was never a real outdoors type person, but this tree-filled scenery in the hills always calmed me.  The truck leaned into the many turns of our route.  After becoming lost in the myriad of identical curves, the road opened up to us and a small mom and pop gas station emerged.