Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
(Part Three)   Hi there Ghost Planet residents.  I'm a 3D modeler/animator on the Prey team.  I have to warn you that you're not going to find any info in here about the game, or any ego trips and "Plan" Wars with anyone else either.  I mean, c'mon people, we're only making video games, not curing cancer or saving the planet.  I'm really just using this file as an occational creative vacation from polygon-land.  I have no idea what this story is going to be about, but I'll just add a few lines now and then and see where it leads.  Also, forget emailing with how I should stick to game developing, I know I suck at writing and there's no way in hell I'm quitting my day job! ;)  'Nuff said....
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THREE

"Go ahead and pick up some food if you'd like.  I'll fill her up."
"Sure, want anything particular?"
"Naw, anything's fine"
I got out and shoved the pump into the gastank.  I glanced around.  The trees were just starting to turn a slight golden color and traces of it littered the scenery.  The whole road was surrounded on both sides by rows and rows of trees.  I couldn't even see more than 15 yards into their dark world.  The store itself was a bit run down, but quaint and fitting for the surroundings.  One of the few small businesses that haven't been bought out by some big time corporate VP looking to increase capitol a few measly bucks.  Down the gray asphalt,  a chestnut colored squirrel dashed from one side of his safe kingdom to the other.  The green and yellow leaves embraced him in a flash of rustled branches.  
No doubt it was glad to be out of the path of the huge, two eyed beasts that have claimed his brothers.  
I went in to pay the widowed man who now operated the business by himself.  
"Hi there"
"Hey"
"Camping?"
"Yeah, well actually we have an old cabin up on rocky's pass.  Do a little bit of fishing maybe"
"Good weather for it.  About time too"  He smiled and handed my change back.
"Well, enjoy yourselves up there"
"Thanks"  I smiled back and opened the door.  It jingled as it closed behind me.
Natalie was already in the truck and sorting through our new goodies.
"Anything for me?"
"I'm afraid they were all out of doggie biscuits this time" She laughed and threw back her head.  Her short read hair danced along the truck's ceiling.  
"Here you go." A twinkie found it's way onto my lab. 
"Oh" Her eyes got wider "Should we wake up Kenny?  See if he needs the bathroom or something?"
I looked back and saw his drool puddle on the vinyl seat.  "I think he's ok for now.  We can always stop on the side of the road later."
She pulled something out of the grocery bag and leaned back toward Kenny.  It was a small crucifix necklace.  His limp head bobbed around as it went around his tiny neck.
"What's that for?"
"I dunno, I just felt like getting it.  Besides it was cheap too."  
"Trying to convert the boy?" I glanced over and smiled.  We've had a small, ongoing argument about her faith in Catholicism for quite a while.  She was hardy devote, but still kept with most of the practices.  Actually that sounded like just about every catholic I knew.  
"Hardly.  Now let's get moving so we can warm up the place before dark"
"I can think of a few ways to achieve that, sister"  
"Oh, you're so boss!" Here eyes lit up in mock excitement. "But I don't think so.  We got junior here, sporto"
"Hell, I'll give'em the keys and he can practice driving for a few hours."  She hit me with another twinkie.  

The next two hours were very silent.  Natalie was reading Hemmingway and I forgot to bring the old beachboys 8-tracks for the outdated sound system.  It's a good thing I don't live at home anymore or we'd have a huge fight over that little issue.  The radio wasn't much relief at this distance from the city.  I tweaked the knob.  Static.Statica weak oldies stationJack Van Imp's weekly broadcast of bullshit.static.  I turned it back to the barely audible tunes of buddy holly and tried to lip sync the words.  Only one more hour I thought.

I woke Natalie up with a sreaming "Yaahooo!" when the lake came into sight through the trees. I quickly looked back.  Kenny glanced around and shut his eyes again.  Damn, he's gonna be up all night again.  
"Yo, Ken!  Rise and shine dude.  We're almost there."
He mumbled something and fell silent again.
"Can you get his butt up?"  I nudged her arm.
"Huh?  Oh, yeah, sure."  She rubbed the sleep away and tapped Kenny.
"Hey...Kennnnnnnny" She softly sang "Kenny time to get up now.  We're at the cabin"  It took a little shake of his arm before he finally succumbed  and sat up right.  He yawned and looked out at the passing scenery.
	
    