Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
(Part Four)   Hi there Ghost Planet residents.  I'm a 3D modeler/animator on the Prey team.  I have to warn you that you're not going to find any info in here about the game, or any ego trips and "Plan" Wars with anyone else either.  I mean, c'mon people, we're only making video games, not curing cancer or saving the planet.  I'm really just using this file as an occational creative vacation from polygon-land.  I have no idea what this story is going to be about, but I'll just add a few lines now and then and see where it leads.  Also, forget emailing with how I should stick to game developing, I know I suck at writing and there's no way in hell I'm quitting my day job! ;)  'Nuff said....
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Four
                                                        The Cabin...

It took us about an hour and a half to put away our gear into the familiar house and get it ready to be lived in once more.  I checked the woodshed to made sure there was plenty for the weekend (there always was) and then I went upstairs to draw a bath.  I hadn't actually taken a bath in a long time.  Showers were a lot more convient.  If I took time for a bath everymorning, I'd never get to work before noon.  I heard Natalie shouting from the bottom of the stairs.
"Hey!  How long are you gonna be in there?  Kenny and I are going to start diner soon."
I opened the door and peeked out.  "Um...just about 20 minutes or so.  I'll hurry it up."
"Okay" she said sweetly.  I closed the door.
I leaned back and looked around.  I always felt guilty when I tried to relax for some reason.  Maybe I just got bored at doing nothing.  There was a stack of magazines in the basket near the tub.  Randomly I grasped for one.  Outdoors.  I flipped through the green wildlife pictures and glanced at a few headlines.  The cover story was about getting environmentalists voted into congress.  I liked to do my little part to recycle or whatever once and a while like a good little boy, but these people really cracked me up.  Environmentalists...mother natures own prodical sons, coming back to plead their case after thrashing their inheritance.  If any of them thought that anything us hairless monkeys could do to this floating rock would have some effect that wasn't going to happen anyway, then they we seriously deluded.  I tossed the magazine in with the rest and closed my eyes.  The back of my eyelids never seemed so red.    The water carassed my skin and I could feel the sleep coming on.  My conciousness drifted slightly.  Upwards it lifted and fell again, each time elavating higher.  My body became numb and detatched.   Then,  so very faintly that I knew I was dreaming,   I heard music.
"Peyton!"
"Peyton! Get outta there already!  You're gonna turn into a prune.  Besides we cooked some weiners and potatos."
I pried open my eyes and saw her come in. "What?"
"Pey-...Were you sleeping?  Get dried off.  I can't believe you fell asleep, you big dork."
Slowly I stood up and took the towel she had offered.  "Yeah, ok, ok.  I'm going.  Just dozed a little there."  The water released me and dripped back into the tub.  She bend down and pulled the chained plug out,
"Ok, thereyou go, just hurry it up lazybones.  Kenny won't eat and I don't want to make him.  He'll listen to you."
"Alright, I'll be right down"
Damn my head hurt.
	
    