Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
(Part Five)  *Hi there Ghost Planet residents.  I'm a 3D modeler/animator on the Prey team.  I have to warn you that you're not going to find any info in here about the game, or any ego trips and "Plan" Wars with anyone else either.  I mean, c'mon people, we're only making video games, not curing cancer or saving the planet.  I'm really just using this file as an occational creative vacation from polygon-land.  I have no idea what this story is going to be about, but I'll just add a few lines now and then and see where it leads.  Also, forget emailing with how I should stick to game developing, I know I suck at writing and there's no way in hell I'm quitting my day job! ;)  'Nuff said....
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIVE



Morning came into the room.  I realized I didn't have to go to work and immediately resumed my slumber.  
I opened my eyes and noticed Natalie's silky hair staring at me.  With much resistance, I cranked my head around to where the clock lay on the dresser.  10:30.  I collapsed again and shut my heavy lids.  Damn, Kenny's probably running all over the place and doing who knows what by now.  Get up body.  It lay silent.  With an all-or-nothing push, I sat up and placed my feet on the cool wooden floor.  I side-stepped the rough area that I always manage to forget to sand and stumbled into the shower.  
	The icy water cut into my skin.  
"Shit!!!"  I jumped out and let my hand be abused under the water until the warmth finally came.  I really don't know how people got up in the morning before running water became a luxury.  The showerhead softly covered my body with it's offering and my goose-pimples went away.  I looked down at the draining spiral of suds.  Something about thatsomething trying to pull itself out of my memories.  I felt like I had forgot something as embedded as my name and now it was calling me to be rescued.  I wave of nausea climbed through my bowels and up into my head.  My hand shot out to the wet tiles to steady myself.  I tried to let it pass.  Suddenly I felt numb all over.  Quickly I sat down in the tub and fumbled with the knobs to turn off the water.  What the hell is the problem? I thought.  It felt like when I had the flu really bad last winter.  I just breathed deep and cradled myself for a minute.  Almost as quickly as it came, the disorientation crept away.  
I stepped out and grabbed a towel.  I hope I wasn't catching anything.  That would really make this weekend a blast, I thought.   I told myself I just needed some breakfast  and headed downstairs to raid the 'fridge.  Kenny's probably starving by now anyway.  

After a healthy serving of salty eggs, I made a new batch with the correct amount for Natalie.  She was out of the shower and dressed in a great looking blue sundress.  I laid out some silverware and filled her plate.  
"Wowy, baby.  Looking good there."
She took a quick bow and hopped on the stool.  "Thanks.  I just got it the other day.  You really think it looks good?  I wasn't sure it was, ya knowme."  She lifted her eyebrows and waited for a response.
"No, no, it looks great.  Goes with your hair."
"What'd mean?  How does blue go with my hair?"  She took a bite. "Pass the salt, will ya?"
"Thelength of it goes good with the length of your hair."  I swallowed hard and thought fast. "It makes your face look thinner."  OH SHIT!
"Like it was fat to begin with?!"
"Naaaaw" I tired to play it off, "You just look narrower, not skinnier or anything, you know.  You want some oj?  I forced Ken to make it before I'd let him eat."  Could've been worse I thought.  I opened the fridge and lifted the full picture.
She smiled and took another bite, "A real slave driver, huh?  Where is he anyway?"
"Out on the tire swing, getting dizzy."
"Kinda makes you think, doesn't it?"
"About.?"
She looked down at her plate, "Ya know, likewhat is like to have a kid around.  Having to look after one and think about where he is all the time and stuff."
Inside I winced.  "Yeah, it's kinda like practice huh?"
"Except this one gets handed back over Sunday night."  She finished off her glass and wiped her lips.
"More?"  I offered the picture.
"Naw, I'm ok."
	
    