Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
(Part Six)  *Hi there Ghost Planet residents.  I'm a 3D modeler/animator on the Prey team.  I have to warn you that you're not going to find any info in here about the game, or any ego trips and "Plan" Wars with anyone else either.  I mean, c'mon people, we're only making video games, not curing cancer or saving the planet.  I'm really just using this file as an occational creative vacation from polygon-land.  I have no idea what this story is going to be about, but I'll just add a few lines now and then and see where it leads.  Also, forget emailing with how I should stick to game developing, I know I suck at writing and there's no way in hell I'm quitting my day job! ;)  'Nuff said....
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SIX

After cleaning up I went to go find my little grub of a brother.  I listened to the planks on the deck creak at my intrusion.  It had been sunny and bright so far, but now clouds had begun to choke out the sun in little patches.  Chuckling, I remembered running up this dirt path as a kid when grandma would yell that she had ice-cream cones for us.  It seemed like such a different world back then.  No problems, no worries, not that I had many now, but just that complete security of ignorance.   I don't think children could handle all this adult stuff and cope with growing up too.  Suddenly I felt very old.  Man, I'm starting to weird myself out, I thought.  Gotta cut back on those late night microwave pizzas.  

Kenny's voice trickled through the thin wall of birch trees.  The golden leaves on the ground refused to crackle under my weight, they vainly tried to hang on to life.  Can't blame them.  Kenny swung back and forth on the worn tired swing, bouncing off the tree with a jerk.  I run up and gave it a hardy shove, propelling him over the water and back.
"How you feeling Ken?" I pushed the gritty tire again.
He stopped between laughs and looked back at me.  "Ok.  Why, did mom call?"
"No, you just didn't seem with it yesterday."   The swing slowed down as he dragged his feet.   He looked up at me and then down at the ground and hesitated a moment.  
"I'm fineI don't know.  I justI feel better today."  His body gently glided in a small circle.  I nodded.
"Ok, just checking.  Feel like going out there?"  I motioned at the lake. "Natalie's coming out and we're gonna get some sun on the raft.  Or what left of it anyway."  I noticed the clouds getting thicker.  He hopped off the tire and inspected a ladybug on a leave.
"Sure."
"Ok, go grab your trunks and we'll take the canoe over."  Kenny trotted back up the path.   I picked up a nice, smooth rock and bounced it off the dark surface.  I went through a dozen rocks before seeing Natalie parade next to me in her new dark blue one-piece.  
"Oooooh, mama!"  I made a hissing sound and touched her skin. "Very hot."
She beamed.  "So you like huh?"
"I like.  We should go swimming more often."  I gave her a long kiss and we strolled down the rocky shore to the dock.  An old green canoe and a long wooden boat were cradled against the planks.  I stared at her for a moment as she looked across the lake.  She seemed to radiate, even with no sun to bathe her.  I thought back to when we first went out, she made heads turn everywhere we went.  I used to feel lucky to be with someone so beautiful, but that's not a good way to look at things.  Or to up your self esteem.  I still get pangs of jealousy when we I notice the lustful stares she draws.  
She reached back and grabbed my hand, as if she could read my thoughts.  I listened to the waves quietly lapping against the boats.  
Kenny came out of the cabin with a candy bar and yelled that he would just play on the dock.  Seems he wasn't ready to risk the water after all.   I shouted back for him to stay insight.  
"Let's just swim out there." Natalie nudged me.  "We only take the canoe because of him anyway."
I shrugged and we hopped in.  I gasped and tried to stand on my toes to get out of the water.
"Auuugh!  I thought it would be a bit warmer that this.  My balls shrank out of existence.
She dunked her head under and wiped the hair out of her face.
"Brrrrr. Yeah, kinda chilly, but we'll get used to it.  C'mon."  She was a terrific swimmer and I had to stroke hard to keep up.
	
    