Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
Sticking with my practice of never posting game/development news on Duke Forever, here's little short story for my creative writing class.  A bit compact for the content, but what the hell it was fun.

Assignment#1


The sandy wind stuck my cheek and beckoned me to consciousness.  If my eyelids 
had ever felt anything, they screamed in pain now as I looked up to find a dark figure 
kneeling near me.  The person was facing away from me and leaning out the opening 
of a tent.  Who the hell is that?  I know what I should do.  Kill them now, while 
they’re distracted.  I can reach that shovel over there if I move quickly.  My body 
told me othewise.  Each beat of my pulse urged me to lay still and let this scene play 
out.  I didn’t have much choice as the figure turned and focused it’s attention on me.  
Too tired to be scared at this point, I lifted my head up and said hello.  The figure 
bend down and muttered something I took as a prayer of some sort.  The fact that it 
was a woman’s voice seemed to calm me a bit.  She moved closer and helped me sit 
up onto a large, soft pillow.  I clenched my teeth as my body punished me for 
disturbing it’s peace.  
“Thank you.”  I managed.
She looked quickly toward the door again.
“Where are we?” Not that I really cared, I was just trying to stall while I figured out 
the situation.  She looked at me with concern in her eyes, then back toward the 
door.
“Where am I” I reiterate.
She opens her mouth and out pours gibberish.
I think I’m hearing things until I realize my damn translator must be fried.  Just great.  
I slowly turn over and ease myself off the pillow.  Faster gibberish flows out now and 
she moves over to try and keep me up.  I wave her off and hope she understands.  
The bump in my lower back is making a slight vibration, so I know the computer is 
still running.  My fingers probe the area until I find the faint rise of the reset switch 
and tap it 3 times.
She just stares at me, then mutters something else.  I tap it once more.
“...in pain?  Is your back hurting you?  What are you doing?”.  Thank God.
“My back’s not too bad”, I reply in her language, “Who are you?”.
“I uh, I don’t know if I can tell you.”  She makes a nervous check of the door with 
her eyes.
“Who’s coming? And how come you can’t tell me?”  The woman helps me back 
onto the pillow.
“You must be hurting still, I heard you screaming in the cell earlier.  Hold on and let 
me get you some water at least.”  She hurries across the larger dwelling and returns 
with a flask.  
“Here, slowly.”  The cool water runs off my cracked lips and down my throat.  I 
grab it and pour half of it on my dry face and hair.  Cell?  When was that?  I have 
vague flashes of intense pain while in a dark and steamy room, but how long ago I 
can’t remember.
“That’s enough for now.” She says and takes the flask away from my trembling 
hands.
“When was I in the cell?  Yesterday?  Were you in there too?  You sure don’t look 
like it.”
“It was early this morning.  I heard you...screaming from my room in the palace.”  
She stares down at the sandy floor.  “You...you finally stopped about 10:30”.  Her 
eyes started to tear up.  

“I remember a little.”  Now I glance out into the harsh sunlight. “How’d I get here?”
She takes her weathered and tan hand and wipes her dark eyes. “My servant and I 
carried you here a few hours ago.”
“Where is he?”  I surveyed the tent again and find nothing but more sand and canvas 
in the shadows.  
“I sent her back before she would be missed at the midday assembly.  I hope she 
returned unseen, they’ll torture her until she tells them where we are.  Then they’ll kill 
her.  I’ve heard it happen before.”  Quickly she looked up with wide eyes. “Oh!  
Oh, I’m so sorry.”
“That’s all right, at least I’m out of there.  Thank you by the way.  Now what?”
“The transport’s late.  It should be coming soon. I arranged for your passage to 
Niellum, on the edge of the territory.  You can go on from there easily enough.”
The seasoned wind blew a gust of sand into the tent.  She gracefully pushed the hair 
back from her face as the wind quieted.  The mark on her wrist was unmistakable.
“Now this makes some sense.”  She flashed me a wild look, then just as suddenly it 
melted away and remorse darkened her eyes. “You were on the first mission here, 8 
years ago.  The first time were tried to get a hold on the area.”
She gently caressed the scar where her ID chip had been removed.  “They used us 
in teams then.  My partner and I were caught and after they were done with me, I 
told them everything and they killed him anyway.”
“The group thinks you’re dead.”
“Well, maybe I should be.”
I tried to summon the strength to sound as stern as possible.  “You’re right.  
Couriers don’t talk, no matter what they do to you.  You should have had some 
courage and offed yourself at least.”
I stared hard at her, knowing that the guilt was probably gnawing her insides.  With 
all the conditioning they gave us, it’s hard to bury very deep.
Hate swept across her face and out her mouth.  “Yes!  Yes I should have.  Don’t 
you think I know that?  My existence here is punishment everyday.  I know I caused 
Mitchell’s death and...”  Her hands grasped at the sparkling sand.
“And YOU probably told them how to catch me too.  Didn’t you?!  Is that why 
you’re helping me now?  Out of...out of guilt?  Don’t bother sister, you’re going to 
hell anyways!”
Tears dampened her checks and made her hair cling to them.  I sat upright on my 
elbows.  Suddenly I felt my survival mode kicking in.  My anger had jump-started 
my battered brain and body.  Can I even trust this woman?  Is there a transport 
coming?
“I can’t help it!”  She pleaded to herself as much as to me.  “You don’t know what 
they did to me in there, I’m not even sure.  After the torture, they injected me with 
drugs.  Ones that our nanomeds couldn’t counter.”  She sniffed and tried not to lose 
it completely.  At least some of her training was still present.
“What,  some kind of fancy truth serum crap? And that’s why I’m here?  ‘Cause you 
couldn’t deal with their drugs?”
“I...they made me...dammit, they screwed with my head.  They made me fall in love 
with Greggor.  He’s their commander.  I can’t help it.  But I think I really do love 
him and, and everytime he asks me about something, I really want to tell him.”  Her 
sobbing came back and she burst into tears again. “I mean, I think even without the 
drugs, I, I really do love him.”  
“You’re sick!”  I ordered my body to move.  Slowly and painfully I got to my knees.
“I’m getting out of here right now.”
She was almost hysterical by now.  “No!  No, they’re almost here.  You to wait.  I 
need this!  I need to save you....help me.”  She collasped onto her hands and 
darkened the sand with her escaping tears.
“After what you just said, do you honestly think I can trust you?  For all I know, 
your loverboy told you to set this all up to get information outta me.”
“No! Here take this.”  She pulled out a small case from under her shirt.  I took it 
from her shaking hand.  “This is the information you need to get across.  I’ve been 
collecting everything I know whenever I’ve had the courage.  Please, take it to the 
group.”
I heard a rumbling just outside the tent and shouting.  I lunged for the shovel and 
tried my best to stand up.  Two men came hurrying inside and then stopped.  They 
nodded at her and then gestured for me to come.  By their faces, panic was 
moviating these men.  They weren’t armed, so I dropped the shovel and let them 
help me out into the sun.  The day was still hot and at least the transport had a 
covering on it.  She stumbled behind us and kept telling them to be gentle.  They 
didn’t care, they just wanted to get out of the area.  I didn’t blame them.  After they 
propped me up in the ragged back seat, they quickly bowed to her and hopped into 
the cab.  She was still crying, the tears running through her hands.  The driver looked 
back at me and nodded.  I told him to wait a moment.  I pulled out a white capsule 
from inside my upper right molar.  I wiped off the spit and tossed it to her.  I guess I 
do have a big heart.
“Do it now, while you still have the guts.”  I nodded to the driver and the vehicle 
lurched forward across the sand.  I watched until her small figure on the horizon 
collasped.  Oh, the life of a courier.