Account Name:  Allen Dilling
Email address: allend@3drealms.com
----------
Sticking with my practice of never posting game/development news on Duke Forever, here's little short story for my creative writing class.  It's supposed to be a brief story about violence.

Assignment#2

The lights went out and it was pitch black.  At least two people screamed and several more held their breath, including myself.  Instinctively my handed grabbed a cold metal pipe for security. They would enter the boxcar any second now.  The anticipation was hell.  The air was frozen with tension, just waiting for the slightest motion to shatter it.  I counted my shallow breaths, 
waiting....waiting.  I wasn't ready for the shock as the boxcar shook on it's tracks and the loud scream of ripping metal filled my ears.  I couldn't move, this was too much for me to handle. 
Screams sounded up and down the length of the compartment.  Then a new sound rose above it 
and I moved.  The primal shriek had me on the feet and into a frantic stumble.  I couldn't even make out shapes in this darkness.  My hands outstretched to guide me, I bounced off a corner and then tripped over a body.  God!  The thing was right behind me!  I heard more of them to my left, howling and snarling with excitement.  Oh God help me!  It caught my leg and I was flung against a nearby wall.  The metal ribs scrapping my flesh as I fell to the floor.  I lay still, my head resting on the cool floor.  The noise passed me and found new delight down the hall.  I 
think that's the man with the blue hat that I hear now.  I reached down and gently rubbed my leg.  My fingers came back wet.  The whole car was ablaze with insane voices.  My eardrums beckoned for relief.  Someone next to me was crying loudly. 
 What do I do now?  Those bastards would make sure we all died tonight.  I have no 
idea what drives them, but they're not going to leave anyone breathing.  A hand grabbed my 
arm and I jumped out my skin with a yell.  I was on my feet before I heard her voice.  She 
tugged on my arm, pleading hysterically for help.  Then she was ripped away from me with a vicious pull.  Her nails leaving bloody trials on my arm.  My lungs pounded in a flurry.  Holy shit! I was drenched in a wave of warm, thick liquid as I heard her gurgling cries.  I lost it.  I began to weep and my mind spun in dense circles.  My arms flailed about and drug across the wall.  I felt 
a metal rod mounted next to me.  Both my hands latched on.  I was one tense muscle.  I 
ordered my whole body to pull.  The pipe let go suddenly and I spun to the floor again.  My trembling hands choked up on the grooved metal and I came up swinging.  In my mind, I could see the wide arcs I was making with each stroke.  Screams of horror surrounded me, tugging my aim in all directions.  I didn't care what I came in contact with.  The pipe struck flesh.  I felt it give a little.  Again!  This time bone.  Faster I swung!  Total fear and panic had taken over me. 
I yelled with all my strength and ran blindly to my left.  I tripped over more bodies and kept running.  Slippery blood flowed down onto my hands and arms.  I tightened my grip and laid into the first loud noise I came to.  The world would be okay as long as I could hold on.