Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Michael Raymond-Judy
Email: mrj@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 04/22/1999 09:46:36 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4-22-99

Well, it seems I skipped a couple of days here. It took me a while to untie
myself and pry the hignes loose from the indide of the supply closet. I would
have gotten out sooner but it was dark in there. Man those guys have a weird
sense of humor. I hope they don't mind, though, that I got so hungry I had
to eat the cute little scorpions, black widow spiders and cobras they put in
with me to keep me company. Oh well.

Before I forget, there is a brief interview I did over at Planetfortress on
Heretic and Hexen. Check it out. Or not.

MRJ Interview

OK, I guess the whole Kenn/Bob issue has been resolved, we hired the person
who wrote the "Bobby Ewing in the shower" episode and returned everything
to it's "normal" state as if nothing had ever happened. Cheap, but effective.
Of course, that still leaves me with several missing cases of Guinness
and all these Oreos with the insides licked out, but I think I know who
to see about that little problem... Rob...

About the only thing unresolved with this unpleasant affair is the whole
Bobby/Dominique question. However, in light of his/her tendency to sue people
(including his/her parents) at the dorp of a hat, I think I'll just leave it
as one of the "open and never solved" files. Quite a few of those piling
up here. However, never fear, I shall fearlessly tackel any other cases
that show up here, provided they do not pose a threat to my bodily 
integrity or beer supply. Priorities.


Too queasy to write any Mouse stories today, and can't remember any more
Rovers' jokes off the top of my head; must be something I ate...


MRJ

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

4-20-99

For the next installment of The Mouse That Whined, as well as Irish Rovers'
stuff, scroll past the next few paragraphs. It's there, I promise.


Well, as expected I seem to have stirred up a little hornet's nest. The Men
In White Coats and Dark Glasses came back and told me not to skip my 
medication any more. I told them (again) that I don't know what they're
talking about. Now for a couple of disclaimers, prompted by the innuendo
and calumny spouted by Kenn and Bob's .plan files. First, let me say that
I have never "stalked" Christie Brinkley. "Stalk" is such an ugly word.
"Followed for days without rest", yes, "hidden under her bed wearing her
underwear" yes, "written long rambling letters full of exclamation points
and little smiley faces", yes. But no "stalking" That would be crass.
Second, as for Mr. Hoekstra's .plan, the rumors of my demise are somewhat
exaggerated. While it is true that I "fell" about 200 times on a sharp
knife (wedged into the couch back by Dr. Love), fortunately the damage
was not fatal. The doctor (OK, the coroner) who stitched me up afterwards
noted that all my internal organs, despite repeated puncture wounds, were
"Remarkably well-preserved". Well, actually, he said "Pickled to the point
that NOTHING could do them any more damage", but I'm sure he meant "well-
preserved". So, thanks for all the scotch sent me in sympathy, next time
no empties please. Onward.

There has of course been some fallout from my little commentary yesterday,
as I expected. Most remarkable is the fact that apparently forcing the 
Bob/Kenn entity to examine its unique (perverse is such an ugly word, I
hesitate to use it) nature is something like examining a molecule under
an electron microscope. The very act of observation causes change in its
structure. In this case, the change was startling and not totally
pleasant.

The first change was that the Bob/Kenn entity split into two discrete 
personalities. This was done simply by dividing up various personality
traits between them. Unfortunately for Bob, Kenn was a bit faster off the
blocks and got first pick. So Kenn got the witty, cheerful, honest, smart 
and charming traits, while Bob was stuck with grumpy, boring, bad-hygeine
habits and complete lack of morals. Kind of like the Good and Bad Captain
Kirks. And, like the Good and Bad Kirks, even the good one was a bit TOO
good. It was so good it made you want to have the Bad Bob smack the Good
Kenn around a bit. Made you think of Good Kenn as a Ken doll come to life.
Made you sick.

I suppose we could have lived with these changes (with the posible exception
of Kenn singing Kiss songs in his happy little falsetto kiddy-voice), 
and to be honest Bob's programming skills did seem to improve even if the
only comments he'd include were things like "Bite Me" and "This works but
it's still a stupid function". But just as things started to look like they
might be workable, and that the Bob/Kenn split was going to be OK, once 
again the mysterious forces from beyond poked their finger in our eye.
Or, to be more specific, Bobby chirped in and said in bis best gym-floor
manner, "Hey, it's kinda cute how you guys split apart like that, you
should do it again!". Thanks Bobby. Go back to your balance beam and sit on 
it.

Soooooooo, now the Bad Bob has split into several more factions, and the 
Good Kenn is right behind him. There are literally THOUSANDS of the little
bastards crawling all over the place, each one different and all of them
annoying as hell. There's the Smart Kenn, who is really Smart but has no
other redeeming social value, so he just spouts off things no one can
understand that have nothing to do with anything. There's Stupid Bob, nearly
indistinguishable from Smart Kenn in that no one understands a damn thing
he says, except that he starts every sentence with "d-uh, a-yuh!". Happy
Kenn, Stinky Bob, Helpful Kenn, Greedy Bob, Celibate Kenn, Bestial Bob,
Painfully Honest Kenn, Drunken-addict Bob, the list goes on and on. Oh, when
will this travesty end? I guess when the personalities get tiny enough, we'll
just sweep them into a dustpan and throw them all away. What a waste of 
(nominally) human life.



   -- wonder what they'll do with THIS one ;)

On to The Mouse That Whined

Well, if there is one thing I can say about Disney, it's that they have some
of the best service I have ever seen. Despite the fact that it was spring 
break and the parks were over-crowded, there were always plenty of helpful 
and usually cheerful (not like Cheerful Kenn, that would be sick) staff
around. The Contemporary resort was no different. The Contemporary is the
big a-frame hotel that themonorail runs right through. We checked in, and 
despite the afct that we were a bit early they let us into our room and
we could unload all our baggage right away. I think we got one of the best
rooms in the hotel in terms of location (barring one of the very expensive 
tower suites that no normal mortal can afford). We were in one of the "Garden
Wings", way at the end of the hall on the ground floor. This made for a
long walk back and forth to the front part of the hotel, but it also
meant that the only people who came down our hall were those people who had
rooms at the end. When the hotel is full of running screaming kids (and all
hotels in Disney, no matter how fancy, are filled with running screaming kids)
this is about as quiet as it gets. Also since we were on the ground
floor we had a real patio with chairs and everything, facing a little river,
while the upper floors don't even have balconies. best of all, since
there is no one below us, the sounds of my nephew's stomping feet (he has
was is politely called a "heavy tread") won't keep anyone awake.

Anyway, we dumped everything in the room, changed out of our now sweat-laden
clothes into shorts and lighter shirts, slathered ourselves in sunscreen
and headed for the monorail. I had to go back for my hat (this happened to 
me at least once a day every day -- I think it was the sun). We didn't have
time to do a lot, so we wandered around the Magic Kingdom park for a bit, and
just got on rides that had little or no line. One note -- even rides that
SEEM to have little or no line can have a very long wait. Disney has enlisted
the aid of Mephistopheles to design their queues, so that they can have 200 
people twisting through little turn-outs within a 10'x10' area. It's amazing.

The first thing we tried was the Pirates fo the Caribbean. It is a pretty
cool ride with animatronic pirates and fake ship battles and stuff like that.
I thought it was cool, my wife and sister liked it, but my nephew was
terrified because the pirates looked too "real" (i.e. they were not obviously
cartoon characters) and one of the pointed a "gun" at him. He spent the
whole rest of the trip in every park asking if the ride we were waiting for
had pirates on it. Boy that was fun.

Next up was the Swiss Family Treehouse. It's a nice little display, not a ride
really, that walks you up through a huge conrete "tree" filled with fake
"living quarters". One warning, however. The walk goes up REALLY HIGH, on 
little narrow paths, and people who are afraid of heights do not like this.
Like my wife and daughter. Oops.

Last for that first day was Dumbo. Anyone who has little kids and has been
to Disney knows about Dumbo. A 45 minute wait for 90 seconds of gut-turning
up-and-down in a little flying elephant. It was OK, the kids liked it better
I think than anything else there, but it's a pain to wait for. Sigh.
Actually, now I remember we did do the carousel that night. It was a very nice
one, and a decently long ride (rest). One of the more "time-cost-efficient"
rides in the park.

Well, enough for now. I'm tired of writing, so just a Song today, sorry no
jokes :(


Irish Rovers Song of the Day: 

       I'm a Rambler, I'm a Gambler
         (to which, frighteningly, my daughter knows all the words...)


MRJ

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

4-19-99 (again!)

Somehow, I felt a compelling urge to tell this story even though I know it
will be met with ridicule and outright lies from those in authority. For
some time I have been noticing an odd little "commentary' passing between
our very own Bob "the Xorn" Love and Kenn "Thank God I'm not Bobby" Hoekstra.
While on the surface these exchanges may pass for nothing more than good-
natured fun, in reality they cover a more insidious, more EVIL purpose.

I am referring, of course, to the fact that Bob and Kenn are one and the
same person! Now, before people go and get all outraged and tell me about
the times they've seen the two of them together at the same time, let me 
first say that if Alfred the Butler from the old Batman TV show can convince
a bunch of sharp-eyed villains that he is Batman just by dressing in one
of Bruce's old cast-offs, then Bob and Kenn would have NO PROBLEM doing the
same (by which I do not mean that they would try to dress up like Batman,
since what they do in their sex lives is their own business, I mean instead
that they could dress up like each other). 

For Bob this would be very easy, since all he would need would be a KISS 
t-shirt and Green Bay Packers' jacket (assuming he could force himself to 
wear that, Bears fan that he is), a pack of cigarettes and a laid-back kind
of slouch for a walk. Kenn would have an even easier time, since Bob is so
non-descript that even PeeWee Herman could walk in claiming to be Bob Love
and people would probably believe him.

ANYWAY, as I said before that is not the point of this discussion, since we
have already decided that how they dress in their privates, I mean in their
private LIVES, is not our concern here. Reverse Schizophrenia is.

Now the traditional version of this story would have one person with two 
very distinct and probably antithetical (look it up) personalities 
inhabiting the same body -- much like Bobby Duncanson and Dominique Moceanu 
(they're both short, annoying and tend to bounce around a lot, I'd say 
the evidence is pretty clear). No, what Kenn and Bob Love share is much 
worse, more hideous and revolting. They are in fact TWO PEOPLE WITH ONE 
PERSONALITY. Oh, they try to hide it by claiming to like different music, 
different football teams, different after-shave and different styles of 
crotchless underwear, but the sad fact is that underneath their different
exteriors they are EXACLTY THE SAME.

OK, maybe that doesn't sound so bad, but consider the following, and then
decide whether such perversions of the natural order should be allowed to 
live.

1) Both "Bob Love" and "Kenn Hoekstra" start with a consonant and end with a
   vowel!
2) Both of them worked on the infamous "Necrodome", a game which clearly
   is biased towards communist insurgents based in small Latin-American
   countries.
3) Both of them claim to have "inside information" about the JFK assassination.
4) They constantly attack each other in their finger files, but neither
   has ever shot, stabbed, poisoned, filed suit, or gone on a double date
   with the other.
5) If you say their names really fast after drinking a liter of bad vodka
   it sounds kind of like "Believe Canucks Try", an indirect reference to 
   their ties to the Quebec separatist movement.
6) Finally, despite several attempts to get them to comply, neither has
   submitted to the DNA sampling requests of the Psychic Friends network.

If these are not enough to convince you, then we are all hopelessly lost.
Please, while there is still time, write your congressperson and demand SWIFT
AUTHORITATIVE ACTION to correct the situation. Otherwise, before we know it,
we'll ALL start acting like Kenn and Bob, writing silly little finger files
that make weird and vague accusations against others, rambling on and on
and on with no end in sight, slowly sinking into the one-ness of Bob/Kenn
that pervades our very souls...


MRJ

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

4-19-99

Hmmm, did not get to this as soon as I had hoped. I have been diligently
slaving away at the Trek projetc, I guess I can blame that for my failure
at the cave... I mean, failure to update this. Anyway, I have been getting
a lot of other stuff done so I only feel a *little* guilty. On to the trip.



          The Mouse That Whined

Must sa