Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Michael Raymond-Judy
Email: mrj@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 04/28/1999 14:34:58 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4-28-99

Well I was going to see how long I could go without updating this, but
some of the things I have been seeing in OTHER people's .plan files just
had to be addressed. For instance, Bob Love implying that the little
"arrangement" I have with Rob Gee where he kills or mutilates anyone I
tell him to makes him my "hired gun". That is simply not true -- I do not
pay Rob anything, so technically he is not "hired". I do give him several
pounds of raw meat every day (whatever we have left over from our Designer
meetings), but that is more barter than pay. As for his obviously exaggerated
claims about Scott McNutt's martial arts exploits, well that's just, um, uh,
well, I guess he does get carried away sometimes, but it's all just boyish
enthusiasm, dammit! As far as I know Scott has never used his skills for evil,
at least not that has been proven beyond a reasonable doubt.

Personally, I think that Bob is getting a little carried away here, perhaps
he is just annoyed that I made some unsubstantiated claims about him and Kenn
and Bobby Duncanson, but this is the internet and that's what it's for, isn't
it? I still think there is something weird going on there, and Kenn has been
strangely silent, almost comatose, ever since Bob disconnected that wire
that used to run from Kenn's head into the side of this little briefcase
Bob keeps in his cube. As for Bobby, anyone who STILL supports the Dolphins
and Marlins and Slobodan Milosevic even after all they have done is simply
a bad person, even if he may actually NOT be Dominique Moceanu in his "other
life". Then again, I have pictures...

So, as a sign of peace I will no longer make any unsubstantiated claims, 
no more attacks or rumors spread about Bob and Kenn and Bobby, including 
things like the following:

1) That Bob once put a Tribble into one of his "private places" to see what
would happen when it multiplied into several dozen purring, vibrating fur-balls.
2) That Kenn dresses in full Kiss regalia and then sings old Slim Whitman songs
while parading in front of a full-length mirror, accompanied by his electric
accordion.
3) That Bobby has fantasies about the Munchkin scenes from the Wizard of Oz
where he puts on his Glenda the Good Witch costume and... no, it's too ugly
to tell! I just can't!
4) That Kenn is personally responsible for inventing Muzak, pop-up web page 
windows, magazine inserts, pocket lint, and the heartbreak of psoriasis.
5) That Bob once slept with every big-busted woman in the state of Arkansas
in one night... no, that was Clinton. Bob slept with every big, busted-for-
impersonating a woman transvestite in the state of Arkansas...
6) That Bobby is actually the little monkey they sent up in the first space
flight.


So, I hope the guys are happy none of those rumors are floating around. I am.


MRJ

--------------------------------------------------------------------------