Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Michael Raymond-Judy
Email: mrj@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Designer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 05/11/1999 08:21:10 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5-11-99

It's a crazy place here, what with preparation for E3 ruling our lives,
the impending release of the next Star Wars movie (and the inevitable
horrendous wait in line to get tickets), and me planning how to best make
Bob Love pay for his crimes. You see, when I came in today, all my Christie
Brinkley paraphernalia had disappeared! Bob of course claims not to be
responsible, but that satisfied smirk hides nothing. He will pay.

As for E3, some of the guys who are going have special things planned.
Kenn, who has just been picked as a "surprise" attendee, will be getting
a really big surprise when Phoebus, who has been there setting up the 
surprise since Sunday, blows him to bits with a remote-control device
just as Kenn steps up to the SOF booth. Nothing like real live (or in this
case dead) gore and controversy to boost publicity. Kenn's selfless
sacrifice will be immortalized by full 360 degree mo-cap digitization
of his death. Hmm, having mentioned this, I hope Kenn doesn't read it
before he goes, that could screw things up. Oh well.

The Trek team have their own surprises planned. Brian Pelletier will be the
one who makes history this time, when he steps onto what he thinks is a
mock-up of a transporter, only to find himself beamed into a wall! This
little stunt will satisfy several important issues -- it shows that 
transporter technology DOES work, it gives the Trek game a hefty PR
boost, and it finally answers the question of what would happen if a
solid object (in this case BR) is teleported or beamed into another
solid object (the wall). Explosion? Merging a la The Fly? A rip in the
space-time continuum that can only be repaired with a phased tachyon pulse? 
Who knows, but I wish I could be there to find out! Unless it's the 
exploding thing and it's really big, in which case I'm glad I'll be here.

Finally back here at home a few of us "old guys" plan to stage a bloody 
coup and round up anyone under the age of 30, exile them to the outside
world, and set up an autonomous free state called "FOBGL", which stands
for Fat Old Bald Guy Land. There would be free beer and pizza every night
for all citizens, cable and satellite sports on a 50" TV, and a special
"embassy" where visiting dignitaries (women) could mingle with the high
muckety-mucks of FOBGL. FOBGL will also be accepting new citizens as
they meet the qualifications (over 30, thinning if not completely bald,
and at least 20 pounds over weight). Qualifications for visiting
dignitaries will be somewhat more stringent.

Well, that's it for now, check back later for more on my vendetta against 
Bob. Hey, what's this under the desk? Oh god, it's the headless, armless
and leg-less torso of my life-size Christie Brinkley doll! Bob, you bastard,
you'll pay for this! Oh, Christie, Christie, how could anyone do this to
you...?


MRJ

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

5-7-99

It was a bittersweet evening last night, where I sadly acknowledged what
I had always feared might come to pass. Still, it was also a happy time,
and even as I resigned myself to the fact that what had been was now no
more, I also was relieved by the sudden insight that even though something
new had replaced something old, the old would still be there to keep the
new company.

What is this idiot talking about, you wonder? Scotch. Single malt, nicely
aged scotch, the kind that costs more than Bobby makes in a whole night of
stripping. For many years now my very favorite scotch was Lagavulin, a
16-year-old, strong-flavored, slightly smoky-toned Islay malt. But I have
sampled a nectar which, I fear, has dethroned the ruling monarch, and
although I will always have a warm place in my heart (and ever-expanding
stomach) for Lagavulin, there is a new lord of single malts, a saucy
Speyside brew called Knockando, whose 18-year-old distillate of the
barley is a taste of heaven.

How long will Knockando reign? Who knows, there are always new brews
out there to sample. In fact, one of my friends shared a small sample
with me a couple of weeks ago of a cask strength (65% alcohol, woo-hoo!)
Glenhaven brew that was both potent and potable. However he says the
brewery has since burned down (or more likely exploded in a huge fireball
with all that alcohol in there), and since I had only one sample and I'm
not likely to get any more, I can hardly elevate that particular scotch
to the purple.

SO! Onward to new taste experiences, and may the best single malt win.

Slainte!


MRJ

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

5-5-99

It seems there is just no pleasing some people. After my last update, I
received the following kind of responses :

Rob Gee - "Uh, I haven't read it yet. But I will. Soon. Really."
Kenn - 
Bob Love - "My lawyer will be in touch."
Bobby Duncanson - "How come you stopped talking about me? It's not fair!"

Now I can kind of understand all the reactions except the last one. In
Rob's case, we all know he has to wait until one of the designers comes in
to read it for him, since we also know artists can't read words with more
than 2 syllables. Yes, Rob, that IS a big word: syl-la-bles. Very good.

Kenn is on vacation in Texas, where he is, I believe, reliving his big 
moment of glory on the grassy knoll, when he bent over to pick up a piece
of used chewing gum that "still had a few good chews left in it" just in
time to miss all the excitement. I can still remember his quote from the
newspaper -- "What? What? Did I miss something?" WHAT!?!?" The only
person who believes Kenn's story is Oliver Stone, and I believe that
pretty much speaks for itself.

I'm not sure what Bob Love was talking about, but I think it may have to
do with those pictures I took of him and that porcupine. He claimed he
was just trying to perform the Heimlich maneuver on it, but I don't know...
By the way Bob, did you get all the spines out yet? That's gotta hurt.

Now Bobby. Bobby Bobby Bobby Bobby, what can I say? Where should I start?
His alter ego as Dominique Moceanu? Done that. His pathetic loyalty to 
teams that sold all their good players or hired rejects from criminal
institutions (in this case the Dallas Cowboys) to coach for them? His
moonlighting career as a stripper (you had to expect that one, Bobby!)?
No, I think I will leave those for now. Like the old joke about the 
sadist and the masochist, I think that when Bobby says "Talk about me,
call me names, be really mean", I'll just say "No".


MRJ

--------------------------------------------------------------------------