[mailhub.gte.net]

Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey

[Tuesday 7/29/97 - 1:23 pm]

[Shadow Warrior]

We now have the final boss in the game, and other than a day of 
tweaking he's done.  Our goal is to be content complete by next
Monday, and here's a list of all we have left to do:

* Populate 1-2 levels.  Playtest the 4 new ones
* Create two end boss cinematics
* Add the new character voices that are being recorded today.
* Add sound effects for 2 final bosses

That's about it.  Other than playtesting for bugs and minor
level tweaks, we're done with the game.  We are looking very
good for being done by mid-August.

Beta #2 will hit the testers Thursday, and all they are finding
are minor things and tweaks (which is good for us).

3Dfx - Still seems to be going slowly.  I really hope they can
have it ready when we're done with the game, because we'd like
to ship 3Dfx out of the box, but I don't know how long we can
hold the game for it.


[Misc]

* We finally got our Quad PPRO machine in to vis Quake levels
at light speed.  Thanks to American McGee for coming over
asap after a phone call to help us get it set up.

* We got a kick as pinball machine from GT (Elvira - Bally).
So naturally, productivity took a nose dive this last week as
everyone is fighting it out for 1st place.  They should really
all stop though as my current score of 31 million and change 
will stand forever ;)  Of course my posting the top score has
plunged productivity even more, as everyone is trying to knock
me down a nocth.  Yawn.. ;)  I'm going back to work now.


[Duke action figure]

This is a "done" deal now, and we're getting a final review
sculpture soon to approve.  Looks like all you good boys and
girls will have one for Xmas after all.


[Duke Nukem Forever Mini FAQ]

This is sort of a mini FAQ since I keep getting the same 
questions over and over.  It also gives people something
to put on the dozens of Duke Nukem Forever sites I've
seen go up.  (Thanks for the support guys).

* The game will be set in and around Las Vegas, and that's
about all you're going to get out of us for the time being.

* We don't want beta testers.  Sorry.  If we need some
later, we'll let you know.

* Release:  "When it's done", but it should be in 1998.

* We will be using the Quake 2 engine, and bypassing
Quake 1.  My feeling is that after Quake 2 comes out,
the Quake 1 engine will be "old".  Also we're in a good
spot timing wise to do so, as we're just now getting 
into the main development.

* Since we are using the Quake 2 engine, you can assume
we will do what it does.  That means:
- DLL support (The game will be expandable ala Quake)
- Client/server Internet play (For free too, not just TEN)
- GL / 3Dfx support (anything Quake 2 does)
- All the neat stuff like model interpolation

* If you want to know why we didn't use the Prey engine, see 
www.3drealms.com, under About Us/Press Releases

* Yes, we will have super interactive environments like Duke 3D

* Yes, we will keep Duke's voice, sense of humor and character in
place and expand upon it.

* And finally, the most asked question so far? "Strippers?"  
Hey, it's Duke, and we're 3D Realms.

[George's Movie Review #8: "Air Force One"]

This is EASILY Harrison Ford's best movie outside of Star
Wars/Indiana Jones.  The only one that comes close is
The Fugitive.  The movie simply rocks all over the place and
I think it's probably in contention for the best movie of the
year so far.  It's totally entertaining the whole way through,
and especially if your a Ford fan.  He's still a great action
guy, even in his fifties.  Gary Oldman plays the usual
psychotic very well, as he always does.  Go see this movie.

BTW, saw an extended preview for Starship Troopers.  Um, we 
were totally blown away.  This thing truly looks like it could
be another Aliens 2, if they don't screw it up.  Effects were
the best I've seen outside of Jurassic Park.

Rating: 9 / 10

[George's Movie Review #7: "Contact"]

Very cool flick, that I had been looking forward to since the
previews.  It's long (2.5 hours), so there are some "slow" 
spots, but I didn't mind much.  It was all pretty interesting.
There are a few hokey leaps of logic in the movie, but what
movie doesn't have them thesedays? (But it just seems that
people reviewing the script would go "Hey, this is kinda
stupid.")  Jodie Foster is good in the movie, but I keep
hearing "Nell in Space" ;)  This is definately one of the top
movies of the summer content/quality wise.  Don't expect a
high body count or any real gibs, but go see it anyway.  As 
part of your $6 donation, you get a half boob shot of Jodie,
so what the heck?  What else you gonna do.  Hang on IRC ;)
Rating: 9 / 10

