Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey

[Monday 8/11/97 - 7:04 pm]

[Shadow Warrior]

The game has really been done the past couple of days.  We are doing
maybe one minor code change a day (and only for major stuff).  A
release candidate has been sent to GT for testing, and our testers
have Beta #3.  All in all, we're pretty bored of playing the game, 
but that's a good thing.

3Dfx: Things are progressing well and there's a "chance" of support
in the initial version.  We will work very hard with 3Dfx to try to
make that happen.  Worst case is a patch after release.

Duke Forever:  This continues to grow and take shape, as we make more
progress on art and level concepts.  Keith and Stephen (Shadow 
Warrior) have taken to moonlighting and creating Duke Forever maps 
late at night (as they will be working on the game).  I continue to 
refine the design stuff that comes up and try to polish the spec.
We will be adding a new programmer to the game to help Todd in the
near future.  Also a new artist will be joining us soon.  All in all,
the Duke machine is gearing up and moving forward.  Be afraid and
expect great things.

[Misc]

* Totally crushed the wanna-bee's at our pinball game ;)  While they
all scurry down around 30,000,000, I had to go and get 42,000,000.
I think they realize the futility of their play now.  I see it on
their faces.


[Saturday 8/2/97 - 11:45 pm]

[Shadow Warrior]

We're essentially done with the game.  If all goes well, we will freeze
things Monday and begin testing.  All we have to do Sunday is wrap up a
couple of DMatch maps and plug in the final animation and add a couple 
of sound effects to it.  WHEW!  Gonna feel sooooooo good to just sit 
back and test the game.

Beta #2 will go to the testers on Monday, so they can test the final
with us at the same time.

[Misc]

* Still the reigning pinball champ here ;)

* Allen is loving the Quad PPRO for vising levels and Duke Forever is
starting to shape up with some "real" art and level construction taking
place. 


[George's Movie Review #9: "Spawn"]

Probably going to get crap about this one, but the movie is just "ok".
Don't get me wrong, the effects rock, and if you are any kind of 
action/sci-fi fan, you gotta go see it, but other than the effects it
was just plain lacking.  Period.  Jurassic Park without nearly as
cool ass computer effects.  You just find yourself asking "Where's the
beef?" and waiting for the next effects scene.  Best part of the movie 
is the evil clown played by John Leguizamo (spelling?).  He rocked.

Rating: 7 / 10


[Duke action figure]

This is a "done" deal now, and we're getting a final review
sculpture soon to approve.  Looks like all you good boys and
girls will have one for Xmas after all.  ReSaurus, Inc. is doing them,
and is well known for doing some Jurassic Park dinos etc too.


[Duke Nukem Forever Mini FAQ]

This is sort of a mini FAQ since I keep getting the same 
questions over and over.  It also gives people something
to put on the dozens of Duke Nukem Forever sites I've
seen go up.  (Thanks for the support guys).

* The game will be set in and around Las Vegas, and that's
about all you're going to get out of us for the time being.

* We don't want beta testers.  Sorry.  If we need some
later, we'll let you know.

* Release:  "When it's done", but it should be in 1998.

* We will be using the Quake 2 engine, and bypassing
Quake 1.  My feeling is that after Quake 2 comes out,
the Quake 1 engine will be "old".  Also we're in a good
spot timing wise to do so, as we're just now getting 
into the main development.

* Since we are using the Quake 2 engine, you can assume
we will do what it does.  That means:
- DLL support (The game will be expandable ala Quake)
- Client/server Internet play (For free too, not just TEN)
- GL / 3Dfx support (anything Quake 2 does)
- All the neat stuff like model interpolation

* If you want to know why we didn't use the Prey engine, see 
www.3drealms.com, under About Us/Press Releases

* Yes, we will have super interactive environments like Duke 3D

* Yes, we will keep Duke's voice, sense of humor and character in
place and expand upon it.

* And finally, the most asked question so far? "Strippers?"  
Hey, it's Duke, and we're 3D Realms.

[George's Movie Review #8: "Air Force One"]

This is EASILY Harrison Ford's best movie outside of Star
Wars/Indiana Jones.  The only one that comes close is
The Fugitive.  The movie simply rocks all over the place and
I think it's probably in contention for the best movie of the
year so far.  It's totally entertaining the whole way through,
and especially if your a Ford fan.  He's still a great action
guy, even in his fifties.  Gary Oldman plays the usual
psychotic very well, as he always does.  Go see this movie.

BTW, saw an extended preview for Starship Troopers.  Um, we 
were totally blown away.  This thing truly looks like it could
be another Aliens 2, if they don't screw it up.  Effects were
the best I've seen outside of Jurassic Park.

Rating: 9 / 10