Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey


[Thursday 9/4/97 - 6:40 pm]

Saw the following on a few Quake news sites, and plucked this one from
Redwood's.

>>GameSpot Poll Results (www.gamespot.com)
The GameSpot poll results for Quake's Successor are here:
5. Hexen 2 (5%)
4. Unreal (8%)
3. Jedi Knight
2. Duke Nukem Forever (16%)
1. Quake 2 (38%)
Quake 2 won (of course), with Duke Nukem Forever coming in at second 
(obviously the name has some pull). QUAKE.FAME - GFKiller
>>

Wow.  Cool to see Duke Nukem Forever come in a "strong" second without
release of a single screen shot or other materials ;)  I think this bodes
well for the future.  Thanks to all you boys abd girls that voted for us.
We won't be dissapointing you.  


[Tuesday 9/2/97 - 6:55 pm]

It looks like tomorrow Joe will release the v1.2 shareware patch for
Shadow Warrior.  Seek it out online.

GT is duplicating Shadow Warrior CD's, and a projected store date is
around Sept 12th.  Stay tuned.

I'm going to start a little poll of what you want to see in Duke
Nukem Forever (or any ideas you might have) soo, so be ready to 
flood me with email.

Can't seem to wind down from Shadow Warrior ;)  Don't know how to 
relax and have fun anymore.  Was forced to barbeque a little on
Labor Day, then we sat down and played some Magic: The Gathering
for a few hours.  Man I missed that.  Will be doing a lot more in
the future.

[Thursday 8/28/97 - 7:15 pm]

It looks like the Shadow Warrrior masters will be a go.  Should hear
by Monday as to when they will start duplication.

Mark Morgan joins us on Team Duke as a texture artist from Raven, 
working on Hexen II.  Welcome aboard Mark!

Chris Hargrove will be here in a couple of weeks, joining Duke
Forever as a programmer (from Raven and MageSlayer). 

John Anderson (Not from ion) will be joining the Prey team soon as 
a map designer.  Prey is about to launch into overdrive as the tools 
are nearing completion.  Tom even has rudimentary net code up and 
running.  Prey is....well....scary.  It's got us Duke guy's scrambling
to outdo it ;)  So customers will benefit from this firendly little
intra-compay competition.

We are working this week to prepare materials for the November
PC Gamer (which will feature Duke on the cover and a large preview).
Be sure to check it out for some "scoop".  We won't release any shots
online until this hits the stands, then we will go into a dark hole 
and work on the game until we go blind ;)

3Dfx Shadow Warrior is progressing well.  No release yet, but I still
think it could be timed close to the release of the game in stores.


[George's Movie Review #10: "Conspiracy Theory"]

Very, very good movie.  Wouldn't be surprised to see Mel Gibson get
an Academy Award nomination out of this.  Julia Roberts is also
good in this movie (after a run of bad one's).  It's a little long
and not high in the action movie, but it's well thought out and
interesting to watch the whole way through.   

Rating: 9 / 10


[Duke action figure]

This is a "done" deal now, and we're getting a final review
sculpture soon to approve.  Looks like all you good boys and
girls will have one for Xmas after all.  ReSaurus, Inc. is doing them,
and is well known for doing some Jurassic Park dinos etc too.


[Duke Nukem Forever Mini FAQ]

This is sort of a mini FAQ since I keep getting the same 
questions over and over.  It also gives people something
to put on the dozens of Duke Nukem Forever sites I've
seen go up.  (Thanks for the support guys).

* The game will be set in and around Las Vegas, and that's
about all you're going to get out of us for the time being.

* We don't want beta testers.  Sorry.  If we need some
later, we'll let you know.

* Release:  "When it's done", but it should be in 1998.

* We will be using the Quake 2 engine, and bypassing
Quake 1.  My feeling is that after Quake 2 comes out,
the Quake 1 engine will be "old".  Also we're in a good
spot timing wise to do so, as we're just now getting 
into the main development.

* Since we are using the Quake 2 engine, you can assume
we will do what it does.  That means:
- DLL support (The game will be expandable ala Quake)
- Client/server Internet play (For free too, not just TEN)
- GL / 3Dfx support (anything Quake 2 does)
- All the neat stuff like model interpolation

* If you want to know why we didn't use the Prey engine, see 
www.3drealms.com, under About Us/Press Releases

* Yes, we will have super interactive environments like Duke 3D

* Yes, we will keep Duke's voice, sense of humor and character in
place and expand upon it.

* And finally, the most asked question so far? "Strippers?"  
Hey, it's Duke, and we're 3D Realms.