Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey


[Friday 9/19/97 - 5:06 pm]

Run, don't walk and get the Oct 97 issue of Boot magazine.  On p.27,
Liam McDonald writes an excellent piece on racism in games centering
on (you guessed it), Shadow Warrior.  The man is clearly a genius.  Go 
read his thoughts.  Thanks Liam for a piece that will surely be framed 
and placed along our "wall of controversy".


[Thursday 9/18/97 - 5:10pm]

I've got an IRC interview on Undernet's #idsoftware tomorrow night.  Be there
or be square ;)  It'll be a cool chance to talk about Duke Nukem Forever,
Shadow Warrior, and all things 3D Realms.  I'm looking forward to it. 
The following is from Blue's page (http://www.bluesnews.com).

>>Broussard on IRC
The next in LoboSoft's series of IRC interviews will be with George Broussard of 
Apogee/3D Realms on Undernet #idsoftware on Friday, September 19, at 9:00 PM 
Eastern time. You are invited to submit questions for the interview in advance. 
Check the website for details.  http://id.lobosoft.com

We've shipped 100% of the Shadow Warrior pre-orders as of early today.  Even
the overseas ones.  This is significantly better performance that when Duke 3D
came out and it took like 3-4 weeks to do them.  I applaude our shipping
staff for getting the game to our customers basically at the same time it
appears in stores.  Future games will be even faster as we streamline our
operation and learn from past mistakes.

The entire Duke Nukem Forever team went to id yesterday to get up close and
personal with Quake 2.  It was a cool trip and we learned a lot about some
cool things we can do (which will help us design Duke Forever better).
Thanks to the id dudes for being so hospitable.

We've heard from fans that the Shadow Warrior novels have started to appear 
in book stores.  Cool.  Run out and buy some ;)  They are funny as hell to 
read.  

Shadow Warrior (game) is also showing up in most stores in full force.  Look
for the bright red box with Lo Wang on the front.

I saw a prototype of the foot tall Duke Nukem statue from Moore Creations
today.  Oh man, it rocks!  The thing weighs like 2-3 pounds and is total
quality.  It's a 3D sculpture of Duke's famous stance from the box cover 
(standing over the alien with his gun pointed at it).  I'll pass along
more details of availability when we get them.  This will be a limited
edition piece.


[Thursday 9/11/97 - 10:04]

GT tells us that Shadow Warrior should start hitting shelves by Monday or
Tuesday.  Way cool.  We should begin shipping direct orders to all you
boys and girls either this weekend (or on Monday).  We should be getting 
a nice big stock of cd's tommorrow.  If not, blame UPS ;)

3Dfx Shadow Warrior is getting close.  I don't have a release date yet,
but I'd think it "should" be fairly close to the retail release (within a 
couple of weeks.)  Once we get the code from 3Dfx, we need to compile up
all the versions we have, and test them for a day or two to be thorough.
Then we have to generate the patches, and all that takes a little time.
But be patient, it's on the way.

I came to a realization today.  I'm no longer going to care when ex
employees talk crap about me or 3DR.  Why?  Because there are the
"cool" ex people like Tom Hall and Chuck Jones that never say a word,
then there are the others.  I realized: "Well, what do you EXPECT the
'others' to say?".  Kudos to the cool ones and I look forward to their
respective games.

Duke Forever rolls along.  Spent the week upgrading some people's pc's
so they could use some of the tools we need.  Also we welcomed Chris
Hargrove aboard as a new programmer for DNF.  Chris comes to us from
Raven and the MageSlayer project.  (I played the TNP demo last night
and it was cool -- check it out).  Brian has ditched all the old
weapon models and done new, cooler ones, and has starting animating
some of the firing moves which are mucho cool.  Michael started
laying out the base of a new Duke Nukem player model.  Allen, Keith
and Stephen and prototyping level concepts with lot's of texture art
from Ruben and Mark (to get the 'look' of the game right).  The
'genesis' of the project is starting to gel, and we see the potential.

I finally got my Strosek Porsche out of the shop today after 6 months
of work on it.  The car makes 434 bhp on the rear wheels giving it a
little over 500hp.  I'll put it back in the shop in 3-4 weeks to boost
it up another 100hp now that the base engine has been modified to take
it, but the car is scary fast as it is now.  I'm gonna go out and have 
some fun with a little road DeathMatch, hunting for Mustang's and Viper
wanna bee's.  Course, it'd help if I could shift worth a crap. ;)


[Sunday 9/7/97]

Brian Hook talks a little about Shadow Warrior in his plan file.  Before I
retort ;) let me also say that I respect Brian and his opinions.

>>What makes us (non-black minorities) particularly defensive and sensitive is
that it is generally perceived as "okay" to make fun of us, stereotype us, 
or whatever, mostly because we don't have enough political clout.

So, by that logic, we as "white southern males" should be equally offended
by Redneck Rampage.  We white, male, texans enduere a lot of stereotyping 
too.  I neither own a cowboy hat or pair of boots, nor do I talk with a 
twangy accent, or go to rodeo's, or like country music.  Don't have a
shotgun in the back of my Ford beat-up-as-hell pickup truck.  No relatives
named Earl or Joe Bob.  You get the idea.

>>That said, I don't think the creators of Shadow Warrior intended to demean 
the majority of people on this planet, it was simply an insensitive oversight
that was the result of an understandable lack of education. I wouldn't say
it's _alright_ that they did this, but it's understandable given the woeful
lack of education that most people have of alternative cultures, races, and
religions. I don't know jack shit about the Jewish culture, Mormonism, or
Eskimos. For this reason, I would think twice about writing a game that needed
in depth knowledge of any of the above topics -- unless I was willing to do
the research.

Actually we did the research.  But this wasn't an educational game, or
something for the Discovery channel.  Since Shadow Warrior was a "parody" 
we meant  to do a lot of the things we did.  Which perhaps makes us even 
more evil. The question probably should be "Should they have made the 
game?"  My answer is obviously yes.  We set out to break new barriers in 
games and to push the established limits.  That means stepping on toes.  
I'm truly sorry is some people are offended at Shadow Warrior, but I see it 
as being little different from the the strippers in Duke Nukem 3D.  There 
was an equal outburst against them.  But again, we were pushing content 
barriers, which I think in the end is a good thing for games.

Again, I respect Brian's opinion and his right to it, as well as Elliot Chin's.
Our intent was not to make a racist game, but a parody of all the bad kung-fu
movies on the 60's-80's.  We wanted to make a "fun" game that didn't take 
itself to seriously.  If nothing else, at least Shadow Warrior has caused a 
reaction and emotion in people, and provided a forum for discussion.  In the
end, not too bad for a 2.5D game ;)


[Thursday 9/4/97 - 6:40 pm]

Saw the following on a few Quake news sites, and plucked this one from
Redwood's.

>>GameSpot Poll Results (www.gamespot.com)
The GameSpot poll results for Quake's Successor are here:
5. Hexen 2 (5%)
4. Unreal (8%)
3. Jedi Knight
2. Duke Nukem Forever (16%)
1. Quake 2 (38%)
Quake 2 won (of course), with Duke Nukem Forever coming in at second 
(obviously the name has some pull). QUAKE.FAME - GFKiller
>>

Wow.  Cool to see Duke Nukem Forever come in a "strong" second without
release of a single screen shot or other materials ;)  I think this bodes
well for the future.  Thanks to all you boys abd girls that voted for us.
We won't be dissapointing you.  


[George's Movie Review #10: "Conspiracy Theory"]

Very, very good movie.  Wouldn't be surprised to see Mel Gibson get
an Academy Award nomination out of this.  Julia Roberts is also
good in this movie (after a run of bad one's).  It's a little long
and not high in the action movie, but it's well thought out and
interesting to watch the whole way through.   

Rating: 9 / 10


[Duke action figure]

This is a "done" deal now, and we're getting a final review
sculpture soon to approve.  Looks like all you good boys and
girls will have one for Xmas after all.  ReSaurus, Inc. is doing them,
and is well known for doing some Jurassic Park dinos etc too.


[Duke Nukem Forever Mini FAQ]

This is sort of a mini FAQ since I keep getting the same 
questions over and over.  It also gives people something
to put on the dozens of Duke Nukem Forever sites I've
seen go up.  (Thanks for the support guys).

* The game will be set in and around Las Vegas, and that's
about all you're going to get out of us for the time being.

* We don't want beta testers.  Sorry.  If we need some
later, we'll let you know.

* Release:  "When it's done", but it should be in 1998.

* We will be using the Quake 2 engine, and bypassing
Quake 1.  My feeling is that after Quake 2 comes out,
the Quake 1 engine will be "old".  Also we're in a good
spot timing wise to do so, as we're just now getting 
into the main development.

* Since we are using the Quake 2 engine, you can assume
we will do what it does.  That means:
- DLL support (The game will be expandable ala Quake)
- Client/server Internet play (For free too, not just TEN)
- GL / 3Dfx support (anything Quake 2 does)
- All the neat stuff like model interpolation

* If you want to know why we didn't use the Prey engine, see 
www.3drealms.com, under About Us/Press Releases

* Yes, we will have super interactive environments like Duke 3D

* Yes, we will keep Duke's voice, sense of humor and character in
place and expand upon it.

* And finally, the most asked question so far? "Strippers?"  
Hey, it's Duke, and we're 3D Realms.
	
    