Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey

[Wednesday 9/24/97 - 9:10 pm]

Everyone should look forward to PC Gamer magazines exclusive Duke 
Nukem Forever cover/feature in the Nov issue.  It should be way cool
judging by the Oct issue's Quake 2 coverage.  You will see lot's 
more screen shots and info on the game.

Still working with 3Dfx on the Shadow Warrior patch.  It is very 
close now, and we're actually reviewing and commenting on it daily
for the most part.  Our local EB sold out of Shadow Warrior in a
couple of days.  Cool.

The Shadow Warrior novels are actually out and in stores.  We bought
two copies at our local "BookStop".  They were in the Sci-Fi section
near the Star Wars books.

Been doing things like reviewing the MAC Shadow Warrior (looks like
it's only a couple of weeks from completion), also reviewing N64
Duke, and Saturn Duke (they both rock).

Allen Blum showed me the Need for Speed 2 demo and it rocks.
Looking forward to finding time to try Dark Reign and Total
Annihilation.  Also looking forward to Jedi Kinght (Oct 9) and 
the Half Life demo.  LIKE WHEN THE HELL ARE WE SUPPOSED TO FIND
TIME TO WORK ON GAMES ANYMORE??? ;)  This sucks...

I was alerted to a rockful new show on Comdey Central.  "South Park".  
Simply put THIS SHOW FRIGGIN' ROCKS!!  Watch it.  Bow to it.  It's on
Weds 9 pm CST, on Comedy Central.  Beavis & Butthead have been bumped 
as the coolest cartoon on television.


[George's Movie Review #12: "G.I. Jane"]
Saw this a few days ago and it's really a pretty good movie.  All in 
all, it's like a cross between "An Officer and a Gentleman" and 
"Top Gun".  A little predictable, and it has the cliche ending ala Top Gun 
(Let's go on a training mission -- Oh NO!!  Real combat...get ready!), 
but other than that it's a good movie.  Also what's up with Ridley Scott's 
camera motion during the last part of the movie.  I think he's trying a 
little too hard to invent some new camera move.  This one will fail ;)
Rating: 8 / 10.  Go see it when you get a chance.


[George's Movie Review #11: "The Game"]
Getting caught up on these ;)  This movie just plain rocks.  Go see it.
It's funny how nearly every movie with Michael Douglas is cool these
days.  Not going to say anything more except go see it and you will
like it.  And if you don't what do I care?  Not like I get paid for
these opinions ;)
Rating: 9 / 10.  


[Friday 9/19/97 - 5:06 pm]

Run, don't walk and get the Oct 97 issue of Boot magazine.  On p.27,
Liam McDonald writes an excellent piece on racism in games centering
on (you guessed it), Shadow Warrior.  The man is clearly a genius.  Go 
read his thoughts.  Thanks Liam for a piece that will surely be framed 
and placed along our "wall of controversy".


[Thursday 9/18/97 - 5:10pm]

I've got an IRC interview on Undernet's #idsoftware tomorrow night.  Be there
or be square ;)  It'll be a cool chance to talk about Duke Nukem Forever,
Shadow Warrior, and all things 3D Realms.  I'm looking forward to it. 
The following is from Blue's page (http://www.bluesnews.com).

>>Broussard on IRC
The next in LoboSoft's series of IRC interviews will be with George Broussard of 
Apogee/3D Realms on Undernet #idsoftware on Friday, September 19, at 9:00 PM 
Eastern time. You are invited to submit questions for the interview in advance. 
Check the website for details.  http://id.lobosoft.com

We've shipped 100% of the Shadow Warrior pre-orders as of early today.  Even
the overseas ones.  This is significantly better performance that when Duke 3D
came out and it took like 3-4 weeks to do them.  I applaude our shipping
staff for getting the game to our customers basically at the same time it
appears in stores.  Future games will be even faster as we streamline our
operation and learn from past mistakes.

The entire Duke Nukem Forever team went to id yesterday to get up close and
personal with Quake 2.  It was a cool trip and we learned a lot about some
cool things we can do (which will help us design Duke Forever better).
Thanks to the id dudes for being so hospitable.

We've heard from fans that the Shadow Warrior novels have started to appear 
in book stores.  Cool.  Run out and buy some ;)  They are funny as hell to 
read.  

Shadow Warrior (game) is also showing up in most stores in full force.  Look
for the bright red box with Lo Wang on the front.

I saw a prototype of the foot tall Duke Nukem statue from Moore Creations
today.  Oh man, it rocks!  The thing weighs like 2-3 pounds and is total
quality.  It's a 3D sculpture of Duke's famous stance from the box cover 
(standing over the alien with his gun pointed at it).  I'll pass along
more details of availability when we get them.  This will be a limited
edition piece.


[Duke action figure]

This is a "done" deal now, and we're getting a final review
sculpture soon to approve.  Looks like all you good boys and
girls will have one for Xmas after all.  ReSaurus, Inc. is doing them,
and is well known for doing some Jurassic Park dinos etc too.


[Duke Nukem Forever Mini FAQ]

This is sort of a mini FAQ since I keep getting the same 
questions over and over.  It also gives people something
to put on the dozens of Duke Nukem Forever sites I've
seen go up.  (Thanks for the support guys).

* The game will be set in and around Las Vegas, and that's
about all you're going to get out of us for the time being.

* We don't want beta testers.  Sorry.  If we need some
later, we'll let you know.

* Release:  "When it's done", but it should be in 1998.

* We will be using the Quake 2 engine, and bypassing
Quake 1.  My feeling is that after Quake 2 comes out,
the Quake 1 engine will be "old".  Also we're in a good
spot timing wise to do so, as we're just now getting 
into the main development.

* Since we are using the Quake 2 engine, you can assume
we will do what it does.  That means:
- DLL support (The game will be expandable ala Quake)
- Client/server Internet play (For free too, not just TEN)
- GL / 3Dfx support (anything Quake 2 does)
- All the neat stuff like model interpolation

* If you want to know why we didn't use the Prey engine, see 
www.3drealms.com, under About Us/Press Releases

* Yes, we will have super interactive environments like Duke 3D

* Yes, we will keep Duke's voice, sense of humor and character in
place and expand upon it.

* And finally, the most asked question so far? "Strippers?"  
Hey, it's Duke, and we're 3D Realms.