Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey

[Wednesday 10/1/97 - 6:50 pm]

Woooo Hoooo!  The Duke Nukem action figure from Resaurus, Inc. is now
available for pre-orders.  It should be in stores in a few weeks.
If you're interested, visit Resaurus' site at: 

http://www.resaurus.com/dukepage1.html

Also!  Moore Creations is now accepting advance orders on the Duke Nukem 
Statue which is made of Cold Cast Porcelain (which is a bit more rugged 
than standard porcelain) and it's a limited edition of only 8,500 units.
They sell for $99.00 and pictures of the statue will be available very 
soon on the Moore Creations website at http://www.moorecreations.com,
or contact them at 512-219-7297.

This stuff truly rocks folks.

Been a really busy past few days.  We signed off on the MAC version of
Shadow Warrior.  Signed off on the Saturn version of Duke 3D.  Spent
time reviewing the PSX and N64 Duke's (both about done), and finally
spent time with 3Dfx Shadow Warrior.  Man o man, the products are a
spinning off.

Here's a quick list off the top of my head, of all the 3rd party spin
off products.

[Duke Nukem 3D]
* PlayStation, Saturn, N64 and Tiger Electronics versions all due soon.
* New add on from maker's of Duke it out in DC called 
  "Duke Caribbean: Life's a Beach" (in production)
* Duke Nukem action figure (Resaurus, Inc)
* Duke Nukem limited edition statue (Moore Creations)
* Duke Nukem for MAC out
* Duke Nukem novels slated for early 1998

[Shadow Warrior]
* MAC version in stores soon.  I think a demo was released today actually.
* Two level add on's coming.  Deadly Kiss and Wanton Destruction. (Xmas 97)
* Two Shadow Warrior novels (out now)
* Shadow Warrior hint book out (Sybex)


[Wednesday 9/24/97 - 9:10 pm]

Everyone should look forward to PC Gamer magazines exclusive Duke 
Nukem Forever cover/feature in the Nov issue.  It should be way cool
judging by the Oct issue's Quake 2 coverage.  You will see lot's 
more screen shots and info on the game.

Still working with 3Dfx on the Shadow Warrior patch.  It is very 
close now, and we're actually reviewing and commenting on it daily
for the most part.  Our local EB sold out of Shadow Warrior in a
couple of days.  Cool.

The Shadow Warrior novels are actually out and in stores.  We bought
two copies at our local "BookStop".  They were in the Sci-Fi section
near the Star Wars books.

Been doing things like reviewing the MAC Shadow Warrior (looks like
it's only a couple of weeks from completion), also reviewing N64
Duke, and Saturn Duke (they both rock).

Allen Blum showed me the Need for Speed 2 demo and it rocks.
Looking forward to finding time to try Dark Reign and Total
Annihilation.  Also looking forward to Jedi Kinght (Oct 9) and 
the Half Life demo.  LIKE WHEN THE HELL ARE WE SUPPOSED TO FIND
TIME TO WORK ON GAMES ANYMORE??? ;)  This sucks...

I was alerted to a rockful new show on Comdey Central.  "South Park".  
Simply put THIS SHOW FRIGGIN' ROCKS!!  Watch it.  Bow to it.  It's on
Weds 9 pm CST, on Comedy Central.  Beavis & Butthead have been bumped 
as the coolest cartoon on television.


[George's Movie Review #12: "G.I. Jane"]
Saw this a few days ago and it's really a pretty good movie.  All in 
all, it's like a cross between "An Officer and a Gentleman" and 
"Top Gun".  A little predictable, and it has the cliche ending ala Top Gun 
(Let's go on a training mission -- Oh NO!!  Real combat...get ready!), 
but other than that it's a good movie.  Also what's up with Ridley Scott's 
camera motion during the last part of the movie.  I think he's trying a 
little too hard to invent some new camera move.  This one will fail ;)
Rating: 8 / 10.  Go see it when you get a chance.


[George's Movie Review #11: "The Game"]
Getting caught up on these ;)  This movie just plain rocks.  Go see it.
It's funny how nearly every movie with Michael Douglas is cool these
days.  Not going to say anything more except go see it and you will
like it.  And if you don't what do I care?  Not like I get paid for
these opinions ;)
Rating: 9 / 10.  


[Friday 9/19/97 - 5:06 pm]

Run, don't walk and get the Oct 97 issue of Boot magazine.  On p.27,
Liam McDonald writes an excellent piece on racism in games centering
on (you guessed it), Shadow Warrior.  The man is clearly a genius.  Go 
read his thoughts.  Thanks Liam for a piece that will surely be framed 
and placed along our "wall of controversy".