Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey

[Tuesday 11/4/97 - 6:54 pm]

We will have a new programmer joining us tomorrow on the Duke Nukem Forever
project.  More info to follow soon.

DNF is starting to really hit a stride.  Allen, Keith and Stephen have gotten
over the hump in learning Quake mapping, and are cranking out astonishing
things.  The artists are cranking out 16 bit textures so fast, we have 
trouble keeping them busy.  Damn Photoshop and Wacom pads ;)

We've done some cool 16 bit sky textures (like you see in Quake 2) and we
really like the look and feel of things.  Was a day or two of work getting 6
faces of a cube to look like it was a sphere, but that's all behind us now
and the backdrops in DNF will rock.

We are due to get Q2 code "soon" from id, when they release Q2 to stores.  At
that point, we will be unleashed.  We've got three weapons in the game and are 
playing with the look and feel a bit.  Lee has been doing some sounds for them
as well.  (Don't ask what they are this early).  Just "stuff".

Michael is animating Duke at the moment, and Brian is working on more weapons.

We've been playing a lot of Total Annihilation lately at night when the real
work is done.  Haven't seen a game grip the office like this since Warcraft 2.


[Monday 11/3/97 - 9:19pm]

Shadow Warrior 3Dfx:  Should be any day now.  Frank has one bug to iron out
then we can patch and release.  Might be an outside chance of later this 
weekend, early next week.

Oh man.  Here we go again ;)  Just cannot help myself.  Just read a nice 
little flame war between Brian Hook and Mike Wardwell.  Here's my usual
problem with Brian's responses.  Lack of tact and respect for peers.
Here's how Brian refer's to Mike in his rebuttal to Mike's response.

>>Once again, this isn't a slam on CA at all -- I'm actually quite enthusiastic
about the whole concept and dream of the day that I can glimpse a CA tourny
on ESPN (woo-hoo!), but I don't need some punk coming down on me for asking
questions (how in the hell is someone QUALIFIED TO ASK A QUESTION? Crap,
what an idiotic concept).

Some "punk"?

>>Do your research the next time you decide to step up to the plate, little boy.

"little boy"?

These are nice ways to refer to an employee at a friendly company who is 
1) licensing your technology and 2) is on a very friendly basis with id.

I don't care squat about the argument you are having, and you (Brian) might
even be right about everything,  but I think it should probably be private
and should warrant a little more respect.

Debates are fine.  Name calling is for 1st graders.
	
    