Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey

[Thursday 11/20/97 - 5:50 pm]

3Dfx Shadow Warrior news:  I think we are finally done.  The major bug we
were having was caused by the fact that Scott at 3Dfx had a different version
of the Build source code than Ken and Frank had.  A square root function 
was different, and since it acted different on two different exe's, we
were getting out of sync in net play a lot.  Fixed.

Next we addressed the launching of the 3Dfx version as it's a different
exe that the software version.  So we created a new setup program etc,
so you can launch net games and all.

We are testing what we consider final code, then we will build all the
different versions (full version, UK version, Parental version, and maybe
shareware), patch them all and upload the various patches.

There are a couple of very minor graphic glicthes that I've asked 3Dfx
to fix, and that should be that.  We will then test all the versions
(hopefully Friday will do it, maybe a little of Saturday).  It's pretty 
safe to say at this point that you will see the 3Dfx version of
Shadow Warrior prior to Thanksgiving.  Thanks for your support and
patience.

Duke Nukem Forever:

* Nick Shaffner joined us as a programmer a couple of weeks ago.  He's a
low level guru with 3D engine experience and we think he and Chris will
make a hell of a programming team.


[Friday 11/8/97 - 1:45 am]

I can't believe it.  Me and Brian Hook agree 100% on Starship Troopers.  

We might be clueless, as most people that saw it rated it 9 or 10 etc, and
LOVED it.  I mean spooge fest.  Me?  I think it's about a 6/10 (and that's
ONLY because of effects.  I really want to give it a 3 like it deserves).

* It's a bundle of missed opportunity.  They had the chance to utterly and
completely blow Aliens out of the water for all time.  As it is, that little
movie in 1987 (or so) kicks the SHIT out of Starship Troopers.  Not even a
pissing match.

* This movie is like a porno.  It's all "pop" shots and the rest is fast 
forward material.  That's fine in a porno, but for a movie with a mega-
million dollar budget, that's INSANE.  Shame on Paul Verhoeven for letting
it happen.

* Paul's earlier work of Total Recall kicks the CRAP outta this movie.  Hell,
RoboCop had more plot and point to it.

* Acting?  Where?  What?  Other than Michael Ironside, THEY ALL SUCK.  Hard.
I mean this is FAR worse than Jurassic Park.  Where do these lames ass people
come from.  Was there no budget left for reasonable actors?  Even small ones?
We didn't need Arnold or Tom Cruise.  But maybe someone that cost at least 
a million?  Instead of this bunch of assembled lamers?  Rico is the WORST
damned actor I've ever seen in my life.  I laughed inside every time he
tried to speak, or got that mad look on his face.

* It's a gratuitous gore fest.  Hey fine.  I'm the king-o-gibs.  I love them.
But gibs with no substance are POINTLESS.  Aliens made you CARE when people
got messed up.  Here, it's just "Cool.  Did you see his head fly off." Onto 
the next shot.  "Wow, look at that dude's spleen sly".  Next.

* Battles are STUPID!!!!  No strategy, point, plan or anything.  In Aliens,
there was some semblence of attempted strategy and it only broke down when
they got their asses kicked.  Then they regrouped and tried a new strategy.
Think of ANY war movie, Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, Hamburger Hill etc etc.
It's a shame Verhoeven didn't watch a few of these and firgure out some
good battle scenes. 

* First hour:  OH MY FRIGGIN' GOD IT SUCKS.  If I want 90210 in Space, I'll
watch that lame ASS old show "Space: Above and Beyond".  Folks, it's JUST LIKE
THAT.  Lame.  Stupid.  Pointless.  I DON'T CARE.

* Boot camp: Tolerable at best.  GI Jane, Full metal Jacket destroy this movie
for boot camp/training type scenes.  

* The effects are stunning and awards should go out, but Lost World's are just
as good and at least it's a better movie.

* I rate a movie by re-watchability.  I've seen Aliens a dozen times.  Same for
Star Wars, Jurassic Park and others.  I hardly care if I see this again.  
Suppose I will on DVD or something just to freeze frame the gore etc.  But
the re-watchability of this movie is zero, unless you only care about effects
and gibs.

* I'm so pissed because it's clear that NOBODY had a clue on the script, or
on casting.  The casting people should be run out of Hollywood and never 
allowed to work again.  I hope they read this.  Please forward it to them.

* Too bad some of the best effects ever to come out of Hollywood have to be 
in a piss poor movie like this.  If I was Phil Tippet, I'd be pissed.

* Brian's right about the space scenes.  Um, space.  Big.  Can park ships 
WAY apart from each other.  Um, blue balls of fire move slow.  Um, can't
track and move out of way?  Um...STUPID!!  Um, more nuking from orbit or
planes flying over and nuking.  I mean Aliens EXPLAINED WHY they couldn't
NUKE from orbit.  JESUS guys, that movie was 10 years ago and they dealth 
with the nuke from orbit issue.  Why couldn't you?  Cause you SUCK.

* Feel ripped off people and be pissed about it.  You got screwed out of
a potentially all time best sci-fi movie.

* I can only look forward to Alien Ressurection now and pray to God they
don't screw it up like Alien 3, or this piece of celuloid trash.  Please
God, give me and others like me the ability to make movies and review
scripts.  Does nobody in Hollywood have a clue anymore?
	
    