Account Name:  georgeb @3drealms.com
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever, Shadow Warrior
Executive Producer: Prey

[Friday 12/06/97 - 2:11 pm]

Updating my feelings on CompUSA banning/not deciding to carry
the game "Postal".  I receive LOT'S of mail on this and the
vast majority was positive.  I will address some of the points
here.

* It was pointed out that it's CompUSA's business and they can
sell what they want.

Correct.  They can.  But do we as gamers want Comp (or any 
other reatilers) deciding what we have access to?  Games 
aren't quite as easy to find as say a bag of cheeto's, so
every retailer helps.  For my part?  I'm going out today and
heading off to EB, Best Buy or whatever I see first and 
buying a copy of Postal.  I urge you all to do the same.

Show the developer's of Postal you support them and show
CompUSA that you will buy stuff elsewhere if they choose not
to sell it.

* "Maybe CompUSA didn't make the decision.  Maybe customers 
made the decision for CompUSA."

Maybe.  But if that's so, I think CompUSA folded when they
didn't have to.  At all.  They could simply have required
Postal to carry additionl warning stickers on the boxes to
warn people.  That's why this whole silly rating system
from RSAC and ESRB got started 3-4 years ago.  It's now
standard.  We have rating for a "reason".  To warn customer's
of a game's content.  Is CompUSA telling us Postal is so
severe the ratings don't apply to it?  That's very bad if 
that's the case.  Next you will hear is that they won't
carry a game with an RSAC rating of 4 on violence (4 is the
max by the way).

* I wonder if Postal would have been banned if it was on
a pace to sell 500,000?  Somehow I doubt it.

* Didn't CompUSA block selling Phantasmagoria a year or so ago?
Didn't they also start selling it again a couple of weeks
later?  Anyone remember more clearly?


[Friday 12/05/97 - 6:45 pm]

Hooo boy.  Just on GameSpot's news page (http://www.gamespot.com),
and read that CompUSA has deemed the game Postal to be of content
it doesn't want to sell (Like pornography - said a CompUSA rep),
and so CompUSA has pulled Postal fromt the shelves.

What a shame.  Get a clue Comp.  It's a sad day when retailers 
start censoring content for us game buyers.  Like pornography?  
Since when are violent games like Doom, Quake, Duke 3D, 
Shadow Warrior, etc etc etc, like pornography?  I guess those 
games are "ok" to sell.  But poor little Postal has to be
stopped.  

Are rating stickers on the outside of the box not enough?  Make
the Postal developers put a special warning sticker on the box or
something, but don't be so pompous and silly as to ban the game,
claiming it's as bad as "pornography".  That's ridiculous.

Shame on CompUSA for playing God with a developer's game,
profits and time invested.  Who are they to make such decisions?
Walmart has always requested toned down/censored versions of
some of our games like Duke 3D and Shadow Warrior.  That was
annoying but fine.  It still got sold and users could patch 
back to the full version if they desired to.  But to flat out
ban and refuse to sell a game?  My oh my, fellow developers,
let's hope this trend does not continue, or else we might 
have to buy or games from more forward thinking companies and
organizations than CompUSA.


[Thursday 12/04/97 - 8:30 pm]

3Dfx Shadow Warrior:  

A v1.1 patch is in the works.  Jack Mathews "Morbid", is working 
on the 3Dfx end at the moment.  Some things we intend to address: 
Garbled status bar, Smoke bomb doesn't show weapon as transparent, 
Multi-play frag bar cut off, Better message if glide2x.ovl
not found, muddy colors.  On our side, we will address the save/load
bug, and try to add resolution changes to set3dfx.exe (it might be
possible for F5 in the game to do res changes -- not sure).  Did we
miss anything major?  If so, email me.  I'd expect the patch to be
done fairly soon.  Jack seems to be doing great on things.


Duke Nukem Forever:

Bunch of random stuff.  Chris finished a tool we use for mapping and
creating the 16 bit skins for the models.  The artists are using it
now and tweaking things.  Nick, Chris and I have been trying to nail
down the technical specs for what we intend to do with the Quake 2
engine, and have a long list of stuff to work on.  More later.

Michael is animating Duke and creating more conceptual sketches for
other game characters.  Brian is working on weapons and starting a
character of his own.

The map designers and myself are overdue for another jam session on
map progression and nailing down overall plot/story.  We'll be
dealing with that more over the next few days.  In the meantime,
they are creating really cool concept levels to drive the texture
dudes, and get a massive pool of art laid out to work with.  

All in all, things are becoming a "machine" now, and with the
impending release of the Quake 2 code, we expect to continue the
progress we are making.  There's a lot of work left to do, but 
things are starting to solidify and take hold.  We like what
we see.


Add ons:

Been dealing a lot with reviewing the various add on's that are due
soon for Duke Nukem 3D and Shadow Warrior.  Duke Caribbean is about
ready and Nuclear Winter (Xmas style Duke mission) is also nearing
completion.  Shadow Warrior's add on's (Deadly Kiss and Wanton
Destruction are getting close as well).


General:  

* Finished 'The Curse of Monkey Island', and have to say it's
one of the best games of the year and the past several years.  Totally
enjoyable, fair, funny and everything you expect.  Only dissapointment
was that after 20+ hours of gameplay the ending was "abrupt" to say
the least.  With all those artists, I know Lucas Arts could have done
better ;)  Going back to play Monkey Island 1 and 2, as well as 
playing Tomb Raider 2 at the moment.

* Had the T1 at the office a couple of weeks and it's been great.  
Thanks to Concentric for that.  We haven't even had a hiccup yet.

* The Duke ports for N64, PlayStation and Saturn are out.  Go 
"get some" ;)  They make perfect Xmas gifts.


[Friday 11/28/97 - 5:35 pm]

3Dfx Shadow Warrior:

Yes, we goofed.  The loading of saved games is directly our fault
and I apologize publicly to our fans.  In our zest to release the
3Dfx patch everyone "assumed" that the other guy tested mundane
features like save/load.  I take full respobsibility and we will
address it asap (I expect it is a simple thing we simply overlooked).

As to the other 3Dfx problems.  We are aware of them.  It became
obvious about halfway through the port that the speed wasn't going 
to be blazing (actually suspected it at the start).  Our options
were to blow off the port, or to proceed.  If we blew it off, we'd
have screaming fans from every corner.  At least this way, you get
something.  It's honestly about as good as the 3Dfx can do.  As
we stated in the readme, Build on 3Dfx is a major hack and several
concessions had to be made.  Speed for one.  3D Sprites/Voxels for
another.  We thought it was at least worth "trying" and see what
we'd get.  Other than the damned load bug, it's playable and
enjoyable by many.  No, you aren't going to get 50-60 fps. 

We will try to address the load bug immediately as it's an issue.

Other:

Hope everyonbe had a good Thanksgiving.  About 20 people from the
office came over yesterday and we ate till we wanted to puke,
played games and watched some movies.  A great time was had by all.

Been playing The Curse of Monkey Island.  Go buy it, as it's every
bit the classic adventure game of Day of the Tentacle, Full
Throttle, The Dig and Fate of Atlantis.  If you like adventure
games, get it.
	
    