Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Thursday 1/22/98 - 3:30 pm]

* The internet is cool ;)  I got hint books for D.O.T.T. and The Dig.
Here's what I'm looking for now.  If you got em', email me.
- Full Throttle, Monkey Island 1 or 2, Indiana Jones and the
Fate of Atlantis.  Thanks.


[Wednesday 1/21/98 - 7:15 pm]

* Finally got plan's back.  Should be here to stay.

* 3Dfx Shadow Warrior.  Seems to be the project from hell.
Burned a few days on what turned out to be different versions
of obj's that we had and 3Dfx had.  Dammit.  This is what happens
when you attempt "virtual" projects where programmers are in 
different spots.  We're still waiting on yet another stat bar
issue, then we can test the final.  Been slow going.  Don't know
what to say, except that it won't happen in the future.

* I need a favor.  I'm looking for hint books for the following games:
Full Throttle, The Dig, Day of the Tentacle.  Tried to order from
amazon.com, and they aren't available anymore.  If you have copies, 
please email me at georgeb@3drealms.com and I'll either buy them
from you, or send you a t-shirt or something.  I'm looking for the
real hint books here and not just "guides" from magazines etc.

* Duke Nukem Forever.  Where to start?

QE4 (Now DukeEd). Nick has been adding lot's of cool things to 
QE4, so it's easier for us to edit things.  Items like:

- Build-like scaling, panning and rotation of textures, so we don't 
have to go through the surface inspector interface.  All this works 
with the KBD or mouse.  It's so cool to grab the mouse and rotate a
texture to "just" when you want it.

-Instead of a green box for a light entity, we actually see a 
pyramid (denoting a light) and the pyramid is the color of the 
light (not just green).  

- Texture lock.  Thank God.  You can now move brushes in the editor
where you want, without the textures moving around.

- Can "fit" a texture to a brush automatically.

- Can "scale" a brush.  Say you build a chair to big?  No problem.
Just scale it down.

- There are more planned editions, but we've got a lot of the basics
we want, and now Nick will join Chris on the engine stuff.

Chris has been working on getting 16 bit skins into the game. 
Should be by Friday.  Both Chris and Nick have been working on a new
entity system to moves and control anything in the game.  Will be
similar to what Quake C was, so we don't have to be 100% DLL based.
This should also make end user add ons simpler.  Modellers all 
working on models and character sketches.  All the mappers and 
texture artists are all focused on one "zone" of the game now, 
so everyone works from the same mindset, and we get the correct
look and feel.

More later...
	
    