Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Sunday 2/1/98 - 6:30 pm]

* Up here working on the DNF spec and storyline a little.  Things
are coming together nicely.

* Saw Deep Rising last night. Oh my God!  What a rockful little
movie surprise.  Good characters, effects, and script.  The
movie is actually intelligent and does "clever" things.  Put
Duke in the hero role and make the tentacle guys from outter
space and I'da been produ of this movie ;)  Go see it, and 
reward those filmakers.  Rating: 9/10

Also saw Extreme Measures with Michael Keaton.  Another great
movie.  Rating: 8/10.

* One final thought on something I read in a recent .plan file,
and I quote:

"Finally, this is my private .plan. If you don't want to read it,
don't finger it. This material isn't meant for public eyes or
public distribution."

Really? So you update your plan with no regard that places like
Quakefinger and QuestFinger grab all these and make them
available to dozens of Quake community sites like Blue's and
Redwood's?  Does any plan author out there feel this way as well?
I thought it was fairly common knowledge that plans were used
for informing the public about anything from what we are doing in
our games to movies we like and cd's we listen to ;)  Certainly
the hundreds upon hundreds of plan updates over the last year
would indicat that.  I guess people just make private plan
updates to themselves, and it's just coincidence that thousand's 
of people read them?  If you don't intend for your material to
be public and for public distribution, then stop updating, or
have the finger services remove your plans from their system.


[Thursday 1/29/98 - 6:00 pm]

* Hate updating a lot and wasting bandwidth ;)  But today was
kind of different.  It's the 2 year anniversary of the release
of Duke Nukem 3D.  Congrats Duke :)  It's cool to see that 2
years after the game came out there are still maps being
made and tc's in production (like the awesome looking 
Platoon 2).  www.3dportal.com for more info and lotsa Duke 3D
stuff.  I think the interest level in Duke bodes well for the
future.

* Joe is going to build the 3Dfx Shadow Warrior patches tomorrow
and release them when they are done.  I'd expect early evening 
type of deal.  I'd like to taka a moment and thank
Frank Maddin (one of the SW programmer's) and Jack Mathews (3Dfx)
for wrapping up this very long v1.1 patch.  They did a heck of a
job.

* I got every hint book I was looking for, so thanks guys ;)  Also
about to start playing Moneky Island 2 (gotta lock the hint book
up first). ;)

* Finally, read Dave Hindler's (Rebel Boat Rocker) .plan in 
reference to Chris Hargrove (DNF programmer).  Truly amazing.
Stunned beyond belief.  Have to read it to believe it.  Email
me your thoughts if you read it.  georgeb@3drealms.com.


[Wednesday 1/28/98 - 8:10 pm]

* 3Dfx patch looks to be done!!  Yipee.  Will pass off to Joe
and he will try to have it online in the next couple of days.  
Will take some time to build/test all the patches, but I think
it'll be online for the weekend.  Thanks again for the patience.

* I vowed a long time ago to stop responding to flames that are
spawned from lack of knowledge, cluelessness, or plain
ignorance.  *YAWN*  I'm going back to work on Duke Forever now.
We have important things to do there ;)


[Friday 1/23/98 - 1:10 am]

* Ok, I'd only like the hint books for Monkey Island 1 and 2 now ;) 
Thanks to the dudes, that helped with the others.

* SW 3Dfx v1.1.  Have what appears to be final code again.  The
config files between software and 3Dfx were being really 
problematic, so we just decided that the 3Dfx version will have
it's own config file (it already has it's own setup program).
Not an elegant solution, but it works and will be transparent
really.  God, it will be nice to never again try to shoe-horn
new technology into an older engine again ;)

* Duke Nukem Forever stuff.  Nick added lot's more coolness 
to DukeEd.  First he got it running on Win95 (a few things to
address later, but it looks very doable for end users).
Just don't be surprised if you need a fast PC to pull off a
decent framerate in the editor.  Good texture management
stuff like search and replace and texture usage counts (so
you can dump lesser used textures). No hard promises, but
I'd expect us to ship this editor with the game, running
under Win95, when the game ships.  Will be cool to make
levels oout of the box like Duke 3D allowed.  Only problem
will be the 15-20 hour vis/bsp/qrad times you will have to
suffer through ;)  You should all have a deep respect for
users patient enough to make add on's for this technology ;)

Sent a couple-o-screen shots of DNF for a 3D shooter round up
that will appear in Strategy Plus in the near future.  Look
for it.

Brian is skinning weapons and, oh-my-god...(shudder)...

We welcome Chris Johnson this week as a new modeller/animator
for DNF.  He comes to us from over at Ion where he got caught
in a lay off type deal.  He fits right in, and his CD's and
action figures have already begun invading his desk.  Wonder
what he'll do when we start putting his action figures in
compromising situations late at night when he's not looking ;)

* We really like the Snork skins that were released for Q2, 
especially the Duke Snorkem one ;)  Check em out over at 
bluesnews.com.  Also, everyone really digs the JailBreak 
patch.  It rocks, and I personally wouldn't mind seeing it 
take over CTF.  Nothing like being in jail, and being 
helpless until your team mates free you.

* The new web site re-design should be online late next week.
It's much nicer, slicker, professional, and all of that stuff.
I think you will all like it a lot.  Look for more focus on news
and our gaming sections once the new stuff is online.  With
DNF, Prey and Max Payne all hitting their strides now, you can
expect a ton of web site updates over the next year.

* Saw Good Will Hunting tonight.  The movie rocks.  Go see it.
Hope some part of it wins an Academy award for something.


[Thursday 1/22/98 - 3:30 pm]

* The internet is cool ;)  I got hint books for DOTT and The Dig.
Here's what I'm looking for now.  If you got em', email me.
- Full Throttle, Monkey Island 1 or 2, Indiana Jones and the
Fate of Atlantis.  Thanks.


[Wednesday 1/21/98 - 7:15 pm]

* Finally got plan's back.  Should be here to stay.

* 3Dfx Shadow Warrior.  Seems to be the project from hell.
Burned a few days on what turned out to be different versions
of obj's that we had and 3Dfx had.  Dammit.  This is what happens
when you attempt "virtual" projects where programmers are in 
different spots.  We're still waiting on yet another stat bar
issue, then we can test the final.  Been slow going.  Don't know
what to say, except that it won't happen in the future.

* I need a favor.  I'm looking for hint books for the following games:
Full Throttle, The Dig, Day of the Tentacle.  Tried to order from
amazon.com, and they aren't available anymore.  If you have copies, 
please email me at georgeb@3drealms.com and I'll either buy them
from you, or send you a t-shirt or something.  I'm looking for the
real hint books here and not just "guides" from magazines etc.

* Duke Nukem Forever.  Where to start?

QE4 (Now DukeEd). Nick has been adding lot's of cool things to 
QE4, so it's easier for us to edit things.  Items like:

- Build-like scaling, panning and rotation of textures, so we don't 
have to go through the surface inspector interface.  All this works 
with the KBD or mouse.  It's so cool to grab the mouse and rotate a
texture to "just" when you want it.

-Instead of a green box for a light entity, we actually see a 
pyramid (denoting a light) and the pyramid is the color of the 
light (not just green).  

- Texture lock.  Thank God.  You can now move brushes in the editor
where you want, without the textures moving around.

- Can "fit" a texture to a brush automatically.

- Can "scale" a brush.  Say you build a chair to big?  No problem.
Just scale it down.

- There are more planned editions, but we've got a lot of the basics
we want, and now Nick will join Chris on the engine stuff.

Chris has been working on getting 16 bit skins into the game. 
Should be by Friday.  Both Chris and Nick have been working on a new
entity system to moves and control anything in the game.  Will be
similar to what Quake C was, so we don't have to be 100% DLL based.
This should also make end user add ons simpler.  Modellers all 
working on models and character sketches.  All the mappers and 
texture artists are all focused on one "zone" of the game now, 
so everyone works from the same mindset, and we get the correct
look and feel.

More later...
	
    