Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Thursday 4/16/98 - 11:55 pm]

Bear in mind this whole Dominion: Storm Over Gift 3 thing was light hearted to
say the least.  Don't take it too seriously.  But I do have what I feel is the
defining point in settling the "discussion" as to whether it was a good name for
a game.  What would we all think, say, if the next Star Wars was called (drum
roll please):

"Star Wars: Storm over Endor 11"  (I'm emailing George Lucas now by God)

I mean really.  Isn't the above just damned silly? ;)  I mean in the above case
we actually know what Endor is ;)

Now, please don't get too ruffled.  We like Ion.  They like us (well some of 
them might I suppose) :)  Take this all in the spirit it was intended and 
let's all lighten up a little.

From John Anderson/Ion Storm:

>>3) Changing the name of Daikatana to Buckets of Blood Pouring Out of People's Heads 
so that stupid people won't feel left out.
(Actually, many folks in the game industry and those who buy their games are smart 
people and avid readers, especially of Science Fiction and Fantasy. I'm sure those 
familiar with Larry Niven's tales of Known Space can appreciate a cool title like 
Storm Over Gift 3.)

We're all stupid I guess ;)  All 27 of us.  I even like read a bunch of sci-fi
books and even a fantasy series or three like WOT, Shanara etc ;)  We will try
not to lower the Dallas area IQ with out combined lack of intelligence ;)

Generally speaking, if only a small portion of the buying public, "gets" a name,
that's a bad thing.  If a customer cannot easily spell a game's name, or ask for
it in a store, that's a bad thing.  To this day, I feel part of Doom's success 
was the simplicity of it's name.  Short, easy to put online (no abbreviations 
like AOE, C&C, TA etc), it told you WHAT the game was about, and there was NO
misunderstanding of what you'd get in the game.  

What more can be asked for?  Let that be today's lesson is naming games.  

As for "Quake 3"?  What the hell else you gonna call it? ;)  Ever hear of Final
Fantasy 7, Ultima 9 etc etc?  It's called brand name marketing and is a very
good thing to capitalize on.  There will never be a Duke Nukem game without
"Duke Nukem" in the title.  I can assure you that ;)