Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Tuesday 5/19/98 - 7:20pm]

Dammit to hell ;)  Went to the drag strip with some of us here and some of the
id guys.  Boosted my car about 100hp more (600 or so now) and was expecting
times in the mid 11 second range.  Yup, would have been nice, had something
not BLOWN UP on the very first run ;)  Dunno if it was the clutch, or the
drive shaft, but something makes the car not go now.  Sigh... Don't try this
at home kids.  Sometimes not worth the frustration.  I'm sure Carmack will
post some of the times later.  I hope to go back to the track after E3 when
things are more stable.  Dissapointment sucks.

Speaking of E3, we've been working on stuff really hard the past month or so.
We did the E3 floor video a few days ago and things look pretty good.  We 
might release it in AVI form near or after the show (when we get a final
tape from GT).  This past month or so has been really, really good for the 
game.  Underlying parts of the engine have been re-written and things are 
dropping into place nicely and there is a game in here somewhere now.  The 
team is utterly motivated, and most of the stuff we've done is really 
close to production work (and not just a bunch of E3 hacks).

I think most people will be pleased with what they see of the game at E3,
and I know myself and the rest of the team can't wait until the ultimate
in dog and pony shows (E3) is over, so we can get back to real work.  It's 
truly a waste of about a week or so's production time, just to show 
prospective buyers your game.  

Hell, like they need to see Duke Forever to decide to buy some of it later?  
For Duke 3D, we didn't do any shows, we just put the game out.  Things 
worked out fine.  Why the need for all this show crap?  I personally think
all the developers out there should boycott future shows ;)


[Thursday 4/23/98 - 10:22 pm]

Against better judgement, but bowing to immense team pressure here, I think
we will release a new DNF screen shot on our web site sometime tomorrow. ;)

This is the first public shot since last November or so, and a lot has
changed (like the move to 100% 16 bit source art).  I think you'll like
what you'll see.  We are still keeping 99% of the game shrouded in 
secrecy though, so don't expect too much.  Just a taste of what's to
come.