Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Monday 5/25/98 - 3:17 pm]

I finished Unreal last night.  Took about 16 hours total, playing in medium
skill.  For reference I played on a P2-300, 128 megs and a voodoo 1 with 
only 2 megs.

Wow, this was truly fun and will go down as one of my top play experiences,
along with Doom, Dark Forces, Tomb Raider, Jedi Knight and most of the
LucasArts adventure games.  If you like large (and I mean HUGE) levels to
explore, this is your game.  The game is vast on a level I had only seen
in Jedi Knight before.

There are some areas that could have been improved, and I'm sure purists will
pick the game apart, but it won't matter.  Unreal easily exceeds the sum of
it's parts and it will sell 800K+ copies because of it.  Epic took a lot of
chances in this game and they innovated in a number of areas.  The game 
is revloutionary, and not evolutionary like most, which means it will be a
big success.

Go get it.  Play it.  And watch this game split the market with Quake 2 for
user add on's and community excitement.  Unreal has definately set new 
standards in 3D gaming and it's going to be a hard act for future 3D games
to follow.

Immense congrats to Tim, Cliff, James, Mark and the rest of the team I
haven't met yet.  Enjoy the $$$ boys :) and smile every time you recall
someone calling your game vaporware, late, inferior, or any of the other
crap.  You guys get the last laugh.


[Tuesday 5/19/98 - 7:20pm]

Dammit to hell ;)  Went to the drag strip with some of us here and some of the
id guys.  Boosted my car about 100hp more (600 or so now) and was expecting
times in the mid 11 second range.  Yup, would have been nice, had something
not BLOWN UP on the very first run ;)  Dunno if it was the clutch, or the
drive shaft, but something makes the car not go now.  Sigh... Don't try this
at home kids.  Sometimes not worth the frustration.  I'm sure Carmack will
post some of the times later.  I hope to go back to the track after E3 when
things are more stable.  Dissapointment sucks.

Speaking of E3, we've been working on stuff really hard the past month or so.
We did the E3 floor video a few days ago and things look pretty good.  We 
might release it in AVI form near or after the show (when we get a final
tape from GT).  This past month or so has been really, really good for the 
game.  Underlying parts of the engine have been re-written and things are 
dropping into place nicely and there is a game in here somewhere now.  The 
team is utterly motivated, and most of the stuff we've done is really 
close to production work (and not just a bunch of E3 hacks).

I think most people will be pleased with what they see of the game at E3,
and I know myself and the rest of the team can't wait until the ultimate
in dog and pony shows (E3) is over, so we can get back to real work.  It's 
truly a waste of about a week or so's production time, just to show 
prospective buyers your game.  

Hell, like they need to see Duke Forever to decide to buy some of it later?  
For Duke 3D, we didn't do any shows, we just put the game out.  Things 
worked out fine.  Why the need for all this show crap?  I personally think
all the developers out there should boycott future shows ;)


[Thursday 4/23/98 - 10:22 pm]

Against better judgement, but bowing to immense team pressure here, I think
we will release a new DNF screen shot on our web site sometime tomorrow. ;)

This is the first public shot since last November or so, and a lot has
changed (like the move to 100% 16 bit source art).  I think you'll like
what you'll see.  We are still keeping 99% of the game shrouded in 
secrecy though, so don't expect too much.  Just a taste of what's to
come.