Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Monday 6/15/98 - 10:55 pm]

Geeeeesssshhhh.  I've been doing interviews and emails (over 400)
for the past 4-5 hours.  Here's some common things I will address
in the DNF engine switch to Unreal.  There really are only a couple
of concerns for people.  This will hopefully address them.

1) Internet play.  Yes, it stinks in Unreal now.  Yes, Epic is
working on it hard to fix it.  I believe they will.  Why wouldn't
they?  They have the #1 game in the country that is poised to take
over net play.  It is in their interest and their dozen or more
licensees to make net play rock.  Give it a little time. Even Quake 1/2
has net issues upon release. Even if the unthinkable happens and 
they don't, we will.  There is plenty of time for that before 
DNF is released.

2) High system specs.  Yes, Unreal likes power.  That's the price
of advancement folks.  Sorry, but those P150/166's aren't going
to cut it anymore.  Unreal runs reasonably well on a P200/64 megs
and a voodoo 1 cased card.  I know.  I've run it here on that
system.  It runs silky on P266/64 megs and voodoo 1.  The only time 
it really bogs is on some maps where not enough care was taken with 
texture usage and poly counts.  Chalk that one up to running out 
of time.  Clearly we will optimize Duke maps for speed.  We are 
frame rate junkies like all of you.  But the bottom line is that 
you will need a P200/64 negs and a voodoo 1 card (at least) to run 
DNF.  This should not be an issue in 1999.  I mean don't expect 
Quake 3 or any other leading edge 3D game to run on your P166's 
either.  Please correct me if I'm wrong.

3) Delay.  Folks, DNF was likely a 1999 game in the first place.  At
least early in the year.  This decision is not going to cost us 6
months or more, and if it does it means we are adding cool stuff like
strippers and pool tables.  The actual conversion to the Unreal engine
is nearly trivial.  We have Unreal code.  We have analyzed it and what
we need to do.  We are not the least little bit concerned.  What 
concerns us is that we can make maps MUCH larger than we were and that
means more time to make them, but that's a good thing.  For you.

That's it.  In 300-400 emails I got "ROCK ON DUDE", or a complaint
about one or more of the above 3 items.  That means to me that we are 
on the right track.  

I know this is an utter shock to most of you out there, but trust
us, have a little faith, and let us do our jobs.  This is in the 
interest of delivering you the best game we can, and we have a lot
of work to do, but we are up to the task and you will be rewarded.


[Monday 6/15/98 - 4:30 pm]

Major Duke Nukem Forever announcement time ;)  We are switching to
the Unreal engine to finish the game.  You will be able to find a
press release online at www.3drealms.com in the next 24 hours.  We
are very excited about this decision, and we think our fans will
be as well.

We don't feel there will be a significant development delay, but there
will be a slight one as we move over to the new engine.  But this is
analogous to people moving from the Quake 1 to the Quake 2 engine. Our 
game data will convert right over, without a hitch.

It's very important to note that this was a tough decision for us.
It does not stem in any way from hard feelings, nor in fact, 
anything to do with id software.  Our relationship still remains
very good.  This was a business decision and based on what we wanted 
to do with Duke Nukem Forever as a game.

Now, if you will excuse us.  We have a lot of work to do ;)


[Wednesday 6/10/98 - 3:45 pm]

1) Look for a very major announcement on Duke Nukem Forever in the 
next few days.

2) My NSX got totalled (I hope, cause I don't want it back fixed),
Saturday night on the way to my birthday party (of all the irony).
Some lame woman merged from a stop sign into my car, destroying the
right side, popping me onto a median (destoying the front end) and
then hitting a tree (causing yet more damage).  Pictures will be 
online soon.


[Monday 5/25/98 - 3:17 pm]

I finished Unreal last night.  Took about 16 hours total, playing in medium
skill.  For reference I played on a P2-300, 128 megs and a voodoo 1 with 
only 2 megs.

Wow, this was truly fun and will go down as one of my top play experiences,
along with Doom, Dark Forces, Tomb Raider, Jedi Knight and most of the
LucasArts adventure games.  If you like large (and I mean HUGE) levels to
explore, this is your game.  The game is vast on a level I had only seen
in Jedi Knight before.

There are some areas that could have been improved, and I'm sure purists will
pick the game apart, but it won't matter.  Unreal easily exceeds the sum of
it's parts and it will sell 800K+ copies because of it.  Epic took a lot of
chances in this game and they innovated in a number of areas.  The game 
is revloutionary, and not evolutionary like most, which means it will be a
big success.

Go get it.  Play it.  And watch this game split the market with Quake 2 for
user add on's and community excitement.  Unreal has definately set new 
standards in 3D gaming and it's going to be a hard act for future 3D games
to follow.

Immense congrats to Tim, Cliff, James, Mark and the rest of the team I
haven't met yet.  Enjoy the $$$ boys :) and smile every time you recall
someone calling your game vaporware, late, inferior, or any of the other
crap.  You guys get the last laugh.
	
    