Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Monday 6/15/98 - 4:30 pm]

Major Duke Nukem Forever announcement time ;)  We are switching to
the Unreal engine to finish the game.  You will be able to find a
press release online at www.3drealms.com in the next 24 hours.  We
are very excited about this decision, and we think our fans will
be as well.

We don't feel there will be a significant development delay, but there
will be a slight one as we move over to the new engine.  But this is
analogous to people moving from the Quake 1 to the Quake 2 engine. Our 
game data will convert right over, without a hitch.

It's very important to note that this was a tough decision for us.
It does not stem in any way from hard feelings, nor in fact, 
anything to do with id software.  Our relationship still remains
very good.  This was a business decision and based on what we wanted 
to do with Duke Nukem Forever as a game.

Now, if you will excuse us.  We have a lot of work to do ;)


[Wednesday 6/10/98 - 3:45 pm]

1) Look for a very major announcement on Duke Nukem Forever in the 
next few days.

2) My NSX got totalled (I hope, cause I don't want it back fixed),
Saturday night on the way to my birthday party (of all the irony).
Some lame woman merged from a stop sign into my car, destroying the
right side, popping me onto a median (destoying the front end) and
then hitting a tree (causing yet more damage).  Pictures will be 
online soon.


[Monday 5/25/98 - 3:17 pm]

I finished Unreal last night.  Took about 16 hours total, playing in medium
skill.  For reference I played on a P2-300, 128 megs and a voodoo 1 with 
only 2 megs.

Wow, this was truly fun and will go down as one of my top play experiences,
along with Doom, Dark Forces, Tomb Raider, Jedi Knight and most of the
LucasArts adventure games.  If you like large (and I mean HUGE) levels to
explore, this is your game.  The game is vast on a level I had only seen
in Jedi Knight before.

There are some areas that could have been improved, and I'm sure purists will
pick the game apart, but it won't matter.  Unreal easily exceeds the sum of
it's parts and it will sell 800K+ copies because of it.  Epic took a lot of
chances in this game and they innovated in a number of areas.  The game 
is revloutionary, and not evolutionary like most, which means it will be a
big success.

Go get it.  Play it.  And watch this game split the market with Quake 2 for
user add on's and community excitement.  Unreal has definately set new 
standards in 3D gaming and it's going to be a hard act for future 3D games
to follow.

Immense congrats to Tim, Cliff, James, Mark and the rest of the team I
haven't met yet.  Enjoy the $$$ boys :) and smile every time you recall
someone calling your game vaporware, late, inferior, or any of the other
crap.  You guys get the last laugh.