Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

[Thursday 7/2/98 - 3:45 pm]

RE: 8 hour work days in the game industry.

If you punch an 8 hour time clock, you are working at a "job".  You 
have little passion, and unless you have a 30 man team you will not 
deliver a triple A title in a timely fashion.  Your co-workers that 
do work more than 8 hours a day will start to resent you.  Friction 
will develop and bad things will happen.  It is not management's fault 
if you need to work over 8 hours a day.  It's the dedication that is
required to produce excellence.  75% of all the people I know in the
game industry work over 8 hours a day on a regular basis.  They
work weekends.  They endure and work around spouse complaints, and
find compromises in their personal lives.  They do all this freely 
and they enjoy it.  Why?

Passion.

If you love and enjoy what you do, you will go beyond the bounds and 
limits set forth before you.  You will do what is necessary to achieve 
greatness.  You will sacrifice.  You will innovate, and in the end 
you will succeed and enjoy the praise of your peers.  You would do all
this for free, but you are lucky and talented enough to get paid for 
it, and you repay that luck with devotion and hard work.  You will do 
all this because of one thing.  

Because you love games and you have a passion for them.


RE: Gossip pages.  They do need to exhibit some sort of journalistic
integrity, and there should be some lines that are not crossed.  When
you do, expect the feel the heat.  I'm glad Texas Martini is gone now.
After the initial day or two of posts, it became apparant that this
individual would post anything and everything, true or not.  When you
post slanderous material about people's personal lives, you have 
sunk to the level of the scum that is Hollywood gossip mags.  Ah well, 
tis' all a natural evolution of our growing game business.  We have 
to expect a few thorns amoung the roses.


[Wednesday 6/24/98 - 8:15 pm]

I simply have to update on what I see as the next great thing to happen
to the web (at least as far as gaming is concerned).  The evolution of
the opinion pages, when people post their true thoughts, and weed through
the spin doctoring and bs.  Sites that call it like it is, even though
us on the other side don't like it sometimes.  Sure it hurts to be stung,
but maybe these sites will keep us in line a little, or at least offer
amusing bits for us to read.  For a fresh, sometimes, too fresh look at
the gaming world, visit...

www.gaminginsider.com
http://www.geocities.com/TimesSquare/Maze/9363/

Used to be a cool page up on stormtroopers.com called The Cynic's Corner,
but I think he got ran out of town on a rail.


[Monday 6/15/98 - 10:55 pm]

Geeeeesssshhhh.  I've been doing interviews and emails (over 400)
for the past 4-5 hours.  Here's some common things I will address
in the DNF engine switch to Unreal.  There really are only a couple
of concerns for people.  This will hopefully address them.

1) Internet play.  Yes, it stinks in Unreal now.  Yes, Epic is
working on it hard to fix it.  I believe they will.  Why wouldn't
they?  They have the #1 game in the country that is poised to take
over net play.  It is in their interest and their dozen or more
licensees to make net play rock.  Give it a little time. Even Quake 1/2
has net issues upon release. Even if the unthinkable happens and 
they don't, we will.  There is plenty of time for that before 
DNF is released.

2) High system specs.  Yes, Unreal likes power.  That's the price
of advancement folks.  Sorry, but those P150/166's aren't going
to cut it anymore.  Unreal runs reasonably well on a P200/64 megs
and a voodoo 1 cased card.  I know.  I've run it here on that
system.  It runs silky on P266/64 megs and voodoo 1.  The only time 
it really bogs is on some maps where not enough care was taken with 
texture usage and poly counts.  Chalk that one up to running out 
of time.  Clearly we will optimize Duke maps for speed.  We are 
frame rate junkies like all of you.  But the bottom line is that 
you will need a P200/64 negs and a voodoo 1 card (at least) to run 
DNF.  This should not be an issue in 1999.  I mean don't expect 
Quake 3 or any other leading edge 3D game to run on your P166's 
either.  Please correct me if I'm wrong.

3) Delay.  Folks, DNF was likely a 1999 game in the first place.  At
least early in the year.  This decision is not going to cost us 6
months or more, and if it does it means we are adding cool stuff like
strippers and pool tables.  The actual conversion to the Unreal engine
is nearly trivial.  We have Unreal code.  We have analyzed it and what
we need to do.  We are not the least little bit concerned.  What 
concerns us is that we can make maps MUCH larger than we were and that
means more time to make them, but that's a good thing.  For you.

That's it.  In 300-400 emails I got "ROCK ON DUDE", or a complaint
about one or more of the above 3 items.  That means to me that we are 
on the right track.  

I know this is an utter shock to most of you out there, but trust
us, have a little faith, and let us do our jobs.  This is in the 
interest of delivering you the best game we can, and we have a lot
of work to do, but we are up to the task and you will be rewarded.
	
    