Account Name:  George Broussard
Email address: georgeb@3drealms.com
----------
George Broussard
President, 3D Realms
Project Leader: Duke Nukem Forever
Executive Producer: Prey

Nothing major to update, just snickered a little when I read the 
following.  It was from UK PC Gamer, #45, July 1997.  This was
pertaining to their top 100 games of all time, where Duke Nukem
3D came in #24.

"Duke Nukem 3D will never call itself a Top 20 game, simply
because the lead character is such a pumped up, adrenalinised
mouthy arse, and someone that none of us at PC GAMER really 
want to be."

;)  Oh really, now?  I think we can really see the difference
between US and UK personalities.  I wonder if the person that
wrote that still has a job?  Is it ok to be clueless and still
write for a magazine?  From the reviews I see, I'd have to 
say yes to that ;)

Here's to continuing to make Duke Nukem the most over the top
action hero the world has ever seen!  Perhaps the UK PC GAMER
types would rather be a large breasted woman with a tight ass
that runs around and hardly utters a word.  Yeah, I think 
that fits them quite nicely.  ;)

Duke Nukem Forever
==================

We're about where we wanted to be after the swicth.  The
mappers are all 100% up to speed now and can do anything and
everything with the editor.  There is nothing in Unreal that
they don't know how to do, and they've done some new things 
that make people go 'Whoa!' when they walk by their desks.
The guys are all working on "real" levels now.

Textures and models have been continuing as if the switch 
never happened.  Actually we seem to be able to have higher
res textures under Unreal and still run fine, so you can 
expect that.  We also know a few tricks to speed up Unreal
and/or the maps to make it run acceptably on a P200 64 megs.
I think 90% of the bog people are reporting are map abuse or
texture usage related.  These are things that are easy to 
control.

The programmers have been busy as well.  We added a 
significant low level piece of tech I will talk about later,
as well as basic stuff like the USE key.  We also enhanced
the Unreal keyframe, moving object system A LOT and now we
seem to have nearly unlimited freedom.  It's great to walk
up to a swicth, USE it and see something happen.  Something
very complex at that.  Also reworked the resource system
so we don't have to recompile a 10 minute file every time 
we add a piece of art.  Very hand for fast updating of data.
In short, the foundation is there, and we're ready for the
new and "fun" stuff.  The programmers will be moving to
AI, guns, and game play type things asap.

Keith is prototyping his "back of the truck" map we showed
at E3.  This is mainly to test out the new object system and
get any last little things that would keep that type of map
from working.

At this point, we are really in full production mode again on
the game.  We expect to have gun and guys walking around any
day like we never switched engines.

The progress from here should be exponential, as we just drop
in new data, and the programmers focus on gameplay more than
tech additions.

Don't be surprised if we're silent for awhile.  We plan to 
just keep working hard on the game and keep our mouth's shut
about what we are doing.