Account Name:  georgeb
Email address: georgeb@finger.3drealms.com
----------
8/17/99 - 4:55 pm

We've received a lot of interest in the programmer spot that is
available on Duke Nukem Forever.  We are going to start reducing
the list to something manageable, so we can start contacting 
people.  Now is the time to send in a resume if you are interested.

[AWESOME JOB OPPORTUNITY]

Look no further.  A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for someone
'out there' to join the Duke Nukem Forever team, one of the most
talented development teams in the entire industry.

Duke's been under cover for a while, but expect wild and amazing
things when we start showing the game to the world.  People
that have seen a demo of this game shake their heads in disbelief, 
drool on our carpet, and jabber things like, "Most stunning thing 
I've ever seen," and "Will rock the world!"


WHO ARE WE LOOKING FOR?

We're looking to add a 3rd programmer to the team to help
Chris and Nick with the workload.  This will be a variety packed
position, and we'll discuss the exact tasks to be done during the
interview.  We'll be updating the "Get Hired" section on our web
site ASAP, but for now, here are the relevant details, in order of
preference.


MAJOR REQUIREMENTS (In order or preference)

* Professional experience with the Unreal engine preferred.  If you 
are working on an Unreal engine game now, contact us.  I bet we 
can work something out.  You'd be surprised how flexible we are.  
Even if you're happy where you are you owe it to yourself to 
consider the option.  After all, what could look better on your 
resume than Duke Nukem Forever, a sure blockbuster and easily
one of the most anticipated games in production.

* Professional experience on a major 3D engine, or having
worked on an FPS game before.  

* User Community experience, working on killer moods for Unreal, 
Quake, Half-Life,or other major games.  The more popular the mod
the better.  If you're the new up and comer, give us a shout.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS

* Knowledge of C/C++, Win95/98, 3D programming, and a good, clean,
professional coding style.  We will want to see code samples 
(don't send them now).

* Die hard game player. If you don't have a passion to play them, 
you typically don't have the passion to make them.

* Must be 18 years old, US citizen, and willing to relocate to 
Garland, Texas.  Also willing to work 10-12 hour days and weekends.


BENEFITS

* First and foremost you share in the profits generated from the
game.  Something few places can offer.  You get this in addition 
to a salary.  And with Duke Nukem Forever, you can reasonably
expect this game to be a blockbuster success.

* Signing bonus available for anyone with professional 3D game 
experience (bonus based on experience, products shipped and
current situation).

* Full medical / dental insurance.

* No publisher B.S. or pressure.  Your only pressure comes from 
working with a highly motivated team of people that demand
excellence.  We don't have to worry about publishers telling us 
when to ship, what to ship, or dangling milestone checks over 
our heads.  This is very different than with most developers.

* Access to a fully stocked LARGE freezer with mass amounts of
frozen goodies (chicken sandwiches, hamburgers, pizzas--all
the food you can eat, and all the cokes and snacks you can eat.
We make a huge run once a month to SAM's and stock up.  And of
course, it's all FREE!


CONTACT

E-mail me at "georgeb@3drealms.com".  We will sort through
the interested people and go from there.  Include relevant info 
in the email like:

* Current position and projects worked on (basic resume)
* Salary requirement
* What's the last 5 games you've played?
* Tell us about yourself in general.  Why would you be perfect 
for the job?  What hobbies or interests do you have?

Don't let this opportunity pass you buy.  And don't let DNF go 
out and sell a zillion copies without you sharing in the 
revenue and having your name on it.  You'll kick yourself forever 
for passing that up.

Someone will get this job soon.  Will it be you?

--
George Broussard, Partner, 3D Realms
http://www.3drealms.com
	
    