Account Name:  georgeb
Email address: georgeb@finger.3drealms.com
----------
02/23/00 - 1:30 pm

From Brandon Reinhart's .plan:

>>Subject: New office rule.

It's called, no deadly zulu weapons for christ sakes. Come on guys, that's
just dumb, those things are radically more dangerous than a BB gun. If you
shot someone in the neck with one of those things accidentally, you would
fucking kill the dude! Please get them out of here and don't bring them
back. There is absolutely no reason to be shooting 12-inch long 100 MPH
needles in the damn office.

- Tim

This was sent to our internal team discussion list :) But not before
we punched a few holes in the wall in Cliff's office. Rock!
>>

HAHAHAHAHA!  This reminds me of a time during Duke 3D's development.  I'm working with someone by their desk and from the other room I hear "clank", "thunk", "slam".  I ignore it a couple of minutes and it contines, so I go into the next room to see what's up.

Standing there was Richard Gray (Levelord), and a couple of other guys, throwing Throwing Knives at a big piece of cardboard.  "Hey, what are you guys up to?".  "Throwing knives, why?".

I kinda did that dog head, looking side to side, I don't understand thing.

Wouldn't have been so bad, except their aim sucked.  There were half inch chunks of sheetrock missing from the wall and countless scratches from where they missed and flat-bladed them.  I think there may have actually been one stuck in the cardboard (which was like 6 feet high and 3 feet wide).

So, Tim, never fear, it happens all over I guess.  But yeah, that was the last day sharp, propelled objects were thrown in the office (except for the occassionally thrown mouse - I still got a dent in the wall next to my desk).


02/07/00 - 12:45 am

We are looking for an additional programmer for Duke Nukem 
Forver.  Now is the time to send in a resume if you are 
interested.

WHO ARE WE LOOKING FOR?

This will be a variety packed position, and we'll discuss the 
exact tasks to be done during the interview. 


MAJOR REQUIREMENTS

* Professional experience coding with the Unreal engine 
preferred.  If you are working on an Unreal engine game now, 
contact us.  You owe it to yourself to consider the option.

* Professional experience on a major 3D engine, or having
shipped (or worked on) an FPS game before.  

* User Community experience, working on killer mods for Unreal, 
Quake, Half-Life, or other major games.  The more popular the mod
the better.  If you're the new up and comer, give us a shout.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS

* Knowledge of C and C++ (required), 3D programming concepts, 
and a clean, professional coding style that will works with 
multiple programmers on one project.  We will want to see code 
samples but don't send them now.

* Die hard game player. If you don't have a passion to play them, 
you typically don't have the passion to make them.

* Must be 18 years old, US citizen, and willing to relocate to 
Garland, Texas.  Also willing to work 10-12 hour days and weekends.


BENEFITS

* First and foremost you share in the profits generated from the
game.  Something few places can offer.  You get this in addition 
to a salary.  And with Duke Nukem Forever, you can reasonably
expect this game to be a commercial success.

* Signing bonus available for anyone with professional 3D game 
experience (bonus based on experience, products shipped and
current situation).

* Full medical / dental insurance.

* No publisher pressure.  We ship the game when it's ready.
Your only pressure comes from working with a highly motivated 
team of people that demand excellence.

* Access to a fully stocked LARGE freezer with mass amounts of
frozen goodies (chicken sandwiches, hamburgers, pizzas--all
the food you can eat, and all the cokes and snacks you can eat.
We make a huge run once a month to stock up.  And of course, 
it's all FREE!


CONTACT

E-mail me at "georgeb@3drealms.com".  We will sort through
the interested people and go from there.  Include relevant info 
in the email like:

* Current position and projects worked on (basic resume)
* Salary requirement
* What's the last 5 games you've played?
* Tell us about yourself in general.  Why would you be perfect 
for the job?  What hobbies or interests do you have?

Don't let this opportunity pass you buy.  And don't let DNF go 
out and sell a zillion copies without you sharing in the 
revenue and having your name on it.  You'll kick yourself forever 
for passing that up.