Account Name:  georgeb
Email address: georgeb@finger.3drealms.com
----------
April 17th, 2000 - 3:55pm

3D Realms and E3.

Before rumors start, we want to clarify our E3 plans.  We will not be
showing Duke Nukem Forever (DNF) at E3, not as a video, nor in back room
demos.

This is the same policy we had last year.  We do not believe including DNF
in the E3 dog and pony show will benefit our goal with the game, which quite
simply is to surprise the player with unexpected content and gameplay.  E3
can be a great spoiler of game content and we believe this to be the
case for DNF if we show it there.

Pro's of doing an E3 video:

* Mainly an ego boost for the team.  You get to show off.  But this showing
off is best saved for the game's release.

* Fans see what you are up to and much press and buzz can be generated.


Con's of doing an E3 video:

* You can greatly spoil the game for fans.  We do not want to show you
specific details of the game because we'd rather you experience them when
you play for the first time.

* You tip off competitors months before your game ships and devalue your
hard work which can easily be replicated once seen.

* You depreciate your game content.  Once it is seen, it becomes "expected
and known" and people naturally want more upon release.

* You have to show too much.  We don't want to show everything and spoil the
game and we certainly don't want to waste time doing some "teaser" video.


By not doing the video we get:

* Backlash from disappointed fans or people crying Vaporware.  This is fine,
because it all goes away when the game ships.  We have thick skins, see the
game daily and are confident with it's progress and position in the gaming
food chain.

* We protect the players experience.  When they play the game it will be
fresh and new and they will say "wow" every 10 seconds.  They will thank us
for not spoiling the game for them.

So after some internal debate and re-affirming our position, we will not
show DNF at E3 in any form.

For what it's worth...we turned down PC Gamer and PCXL requested exclusive 
screenshots of DNF for small roundup previews in May/June issues.  We like 
these guys a lot, but we did this for the same reason as above.  If those 
same magazines (or anyone in the world) called and asked us for 3 minutes 
of video footage of DNF for a May/June coverdisk, we'd turn them down flat.  
So why then, would we do it for E3?  For the press, coverage and hype?  No 
thanks, we have enough of that.

We will never over-expose the game before its release.  You won't ever see
mass releases or screenshot-of-the-day for DNF.  You won't ever see a full
weapon and character listing in a preview, spoiling the many surprises.

We hope the die hard fans out there understand that we're just trying to
protect the game's experience, and we hope that you support us in this
decision.  See you on the message boards.

The 3DR crew will be there though, to relax and enjoy the show and have a
little time off from an utterly grinding schedule.

/em puts on his flame resistant suit.