Account Name:  Paul Richards
Email address: paulr@3drealms.com
----------
Man, it's dark in here.  'Can't see my hand in front of my face.  Maybe if I light this torch it'll be easier to find my way around this godforsaken -- Eeyaah! SPIDERS!  Getemoffgetemoffgetemoff!!    

Hey, what gives?  I just typed a bunch of stuff and none of it went through.  This is a test.  If something goes wrong again I think I might cry.

Okay, okay...
I think I have this .plan file jazz worked out now.

I type stuff in another program and paste it into the text box.  Simple.

I must confess, though, that I've been getting some peculiar email.  A Timothy Seaton (alias Dr. Bob) said it would really make his day if I extended a gracious "hello" to someone named Sarah Schneider (presumably his sweetheart), so here 'goes :

*Ahem*
"Hello, Sarah Schneider!"

I know neither of these people personally, but have a soft spot for lovebirds, being one myself.  So Tim & Sarah : best wishes.      

To anyone else who might be reading, just see me as a conduit for your positive vibes.  I don't have much use for the other variety.

Peace, Love, Unity & Respect!
-Paul Richards          

I have a correction to make about yesterday's addition.
Yup.
'Seems I was wrong to refer to Miss. Sarah Schneider as the "sweetheart" of one Timothy Seaton.

"I just have to correct you on one thing." blushes Seaton, "She really is one of my best friends, but we are not lovebirds."

Poor, poor Timothy.  I too know the feeling of "just wanting to be friends" but fret not, there are plenty of eligible women out there just waiting to fall head over heels in love with you.

Good luck and Godspeed.

-Paul    

Not to flaunt my meager two weeks at id, but I think everybody ought to know how sweet Ms. Donna (id mom) Jackson is.  I'm sure a lot of you are already familiar.  Heck, for all I know she has an official fan club somewhere!  Ms. Donna is the incarnation of Southern hospitality, from her freindly (though sometimes lenghy :) morning chats to her willingness to help out whenever you've got a problem.  She even nicknamed me "baby P.R." to help me feel more like one of the group.  'Marvelous woman.  Thanks again for getting me those plane tickets!

I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank the rest of the id crew for being just as cool to me as Ms. Donna.  'Can't wait to see Quake Arena, guys! 

Kevin : Supportive you were.  Thankful am I.
Adrian : Your sketchbooks made me drool!  ('Sorry if I smeared anything :)
Paul S. : I still haven't made it to Lonestar.  Maybe next week.  ('Just picked up Major Bummer #15 -- Why did you have to be right?)
Paul J : How was France?
Tim : Your advice concerning "questionable reading material" was kindly noted.
Brandon : 'Still waiting for that Front Line Assembly remix album.  CD now be damned!

------
Now I'm going to delve into something a bit more personal.

On labor day weekend I'll be leaving Texas to visit someone very special to me, so if any of you out there have love advice, drop me a line.  Mind you, this isn't just your average, workaday woman.  I'm talking about   someone who, in all possibly, is THE most awesome girl on the planet.  I really want to make a good impression.  PERVERTS TAKE NOTE : This isn't an invitation to make lewd, sexual remarks.  I'm simply looking for some romantic insight, especially from the female perspective (hint, hint, ladies).  Cupid has hit me pretty hard. 

Keep Chillin',
Paul