Account Name:  Paul Richards
Email address: paulr@3drealms.com
----------
Aug. 27, 1998

Here are some nifty tools that make my job as a pencil monkey a whole lot easier :

-flexible curve
-pigma micron brushes
-pigma micron technical pens
-rolling ruler 
-light box
-lightwave (for tricky perspective stuff)

Use 'em!  You'll see how awesome they are!  
-Paul


Aug. 26, 1998

Since Jim's been spazzin' over Jack Kirby and Mike Mignola lately, I decided to make a quick list of some cartoonists I find inspirational.  Listed next to each one is a comic project they've done.  

Yukito Kishiro - Battle Angel Alita
Jim Woodring - Frank
Mark Martin - Tantalizing Stories
Mike Allred - Madman
Steve Bissette - Swamp Thing
Rick Veitch - Rare Bit Fiends
Jhonen Vasquez - Johnny the Homicidal Maniac
Rob Schrab - Scud : The Disposable Assassin
Jeff Smith - Bone
Mark Shultz - Xenozoic Tales
Steve Purcell - Sam & Max
Ben Edlund - The Tick
Kevin Eastman & Peter Laird - Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
Bill Waterson - Calvin & Hobbes
Frank Cho - University 2
Masamune Shirow - Ghost in the Shell
Evan Dorkin - Dork! / Milk & Cheese
Adam Warren - Dirty Pair
Geoff Darrow - Hard Boiled

Any fans out there?

Aug. 25, 1998

This message is for Wendy just in case she happens by tonight!  Hi, Wendy!  This is my .plan file!  Woo!  Aren't you proud of me???

Aug. 24, 1998

Rave review!
"Nocturnal Nation", despite being located in the rather spacious Dallas Music Complex, quickly became congested.  Lee (DeathJester) Dotson and I got there early, which was a good thing and a bad thing.  Good because parking was relatively painless and there was plenty of room for dancing.  Bad because we wore ourselves out before the party actually started heating up!  [How ya feelin', Lee?  Lemme guess : SORE!]  
MUSIC RUNDOWN : House in the main room, followed by a live analog PA by Turtle (minimal acid that tried to be Richie Hawtin but fell short), followed by a good jungle DJ (the crowd went spastic when he put on Prisoners of Technology's remix of the Beastie Boys' "Intergalactic"), followed by Southside Reverb's Kelly Reverb (spinning mostly breaks -- some of which were his own tracks -- and hard house).  Finally, Rabbit in the Moon went on, opening up with their classic anthem "Out of Body Experience."  The fellow with the disco-ball suit dancing around on stage throwing glowsticks, if I'm not mistaken, was DJ Monk.  Though I didn't stick around for it, DJ DRC from San Francisco threw down a two hour set right after finishing her late-night guest mix on Edgeclub.  It was probably really good, but conditions were such that I wouldn't have been able to fully enjoy it.             
Two other rooms specialized in drum'n'bass, one in ambient and a fourth (located outside) in mellow house.  Basically something for everybody.

'Lots of neat lights, lasers, projections and video mixing.
'Worth my $20.
 
NEXT SATURDAY @ THE SAME VENUE : "CHEMISTRY" Be there!

'Spent Sunday afternoon playing volleyball with some of my friends from ION.  Big up to Bill and Jim [tha Daly bruthas] for being such consistently good hosts!  See you next Sunday, guys!  (This time I will bring $$$!)    

Aug. 22, 1998

What can I say?  I'm overwhelmed that so many of you were kind enough to offer love suggestions.   What's more overwhelming is that many of them were right on the money in terms of what I was looking for.  Heartfelt.  Honest.  Thanks for your concern, all!

Additional, additional : RAVE tonight!  Rabbit in the Moon will be performing live at the Dallas Music Complex.  ("Nocturnal Nation" info line : 972-994-3561)  'Party starts at 8:00.  I'll be heading out there with Lee (skin god) Dotson from ION Storm's Anachronox team, and possibly some of the 3DRealms guys.  It promises to be a lot of fun, so if you're in for an evening of counterculture, I highly recommend meeting us there!

Peace Out!
-Paul

----
The following is everything I've typed up until today, in chronological order.  I've been informed that all the new stuff is supposed to go on TOP.  Hehe!
---

Man, it's dark in here.  'Can't see my hand in front of my face.  Maybe if I light this torch it'll be easier to find my way around this godforsaken -- Eeyaah! SPIDERS!  Getemoffgetemoffgetemoff!!    

Hey, what gives?  I just typed a bunch of stuff and none of it went through.  This is a test.  If something goes wrong again I think I might cry.

Okay, okay...
I think I have this .plan file jazz worked out now.

I type stuff in another program and paste it into the text box.  Simple.

I must confess, though, that I've been getting some peculiar email.  A Timothy Seaton (alias Dr. Bob) said it would really make his day if I extended a gracious "hello" to someone named Sarah Schneider (presumably his sweetheart), so here 'goes :

*Ahem*
"Hello, Sarah Schneider!"

I know neither of these people personally, but have a soft spot for lovebirds, being one myself.  So Tim & Sarah : best wishes.      

To anyone else who might be reading, just see me as a conduit for your positive vibes.  I don't have much use for the other variety.

Peace, Love, Unity & Respect!
-Paul Richards          

I have a correction to make about yesterday's addition.
Yup.
'Seems I was wrong to refer to Miss. Sarah Schneider as the "sweetheart" of one Timothy Seaton.

"I just have to correct you on one thing." blushes Seaton, "She really is one of my best friends, but we are not lovebirds."

Poor, poor Timothy.  I too know the feeling of "just wanting to be friends" but fret not, there are plenty of eligible women out there just waiting to fall head over heels in love with you.

Good luck and Godspeed.

-Paul    

Not to flaunt my meager two weeks at id, but I think everybody ought to know how sweet Ms. Donna (id mom) Jackson is.  I'm sure a lot of you are already familiar.  Heck, for all I know she has an official fan club somewhere!  Ms. Donna is the incarnation of Southern hospitality, from her freindly (though sometimes lenghy :) morning chats to her willingness to help out whenever you've got a problem.  She even nicknamed me "baby P.R." to help me feel more like one of the group.  'Marvelous woman.  Thanks again for getting me those plane tickets!

I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank the rest of the id crew for being just as cool to me as Ms. Donna.  'Can't wait to see Quake Arena, guys! 

Kevin : Supportive you were.  Thankful am I.
Adrian : Your sketchbooks made me drool!  ('Sorry if I smeared anything :)
Paul S. : I still haven't made it to Lonestar.  Maybe next week.  ('Just picked up Major Bummer #15 -- Why did you have to be right?)
Paul J : How was France?
Tim : Your advice concerning "questionable reading material" was kindly noted.
Brandon : 'Still waiting for that Front Line Assembly remix album.  CD now be damned!

------
Now I'm going to delve into something a bit more personal.

On labor day weekend I'll be leaving Texas to visit someone very special to me, so if any of you out there have love advice, drop me a line.  Mind you, this isn't just your average, workaday woman.  I'm talking about   someone who, in all possibly, is THE most awesome girl on the planet.  I really want to make a good impression.  PERVERTS TAKE NOTE : This isn't an invitation to make lewd, sexual remarks.  I'm simply looking for some romantic insight, especially from the female perspective (hint, hint, ladies).  Cupid has hit me pretty hard. 

Keep Chillin',
Paul
	
    