Account Name:  Paul Richards
Email address: paulr@3drealms.com
----------
This room is...GREEN.

Hey!  Austin people!  'Any of you make it to the Music Hall last Saturday?  I was down there with Lee "Death Jester" Dotson and missed seeing the likes of Moby, 1.8.7. and a bunch of others I would've gladly shelled out $18 to hear spin.  Call it bad timing.  And hey -- if you'd like to hear OTHER stories about bad timing, you can talk to The Jester himself.  He's got a real doozy.  (heheh)   

'Checked out Gameworks at the Grapevine Mills mall on Sunday.  All's I gotta say, people, is "THE FUTURE IS NOW!"  Seriously, I felt like Johnny-freakin-Pneumonic walkin' around that joint.  Fortunately I had Josh "The Bee's Knees" Jay to keep me from putting my tongue on all those exposed wires.    

I also made my second trip to the Virgin megastore, also in aforementioned mall, which brings me to my obligatory.... 
 
MUSIC PIX [cuz I be one wack name-droppin' mutha] :

Hardfloor "All Targets Down" [Harthouse] -- "Hardfloor is still doin' it!"  Slammin' acid trax from 303 kings Oliver Bondzio and Ramon Zenker.  I've seen these guys live and it's crazy how they bop their heads in sync to their music.  

Art of Trance "Wildlife On One" [Platipus] -- 'Finally found this one!  Now if only I could track down Union Jack's "There Will Be No Armageddon" I'd be set!

Celtic Cross "Hicksville" [Dragonfly] -- Simon Posford (a.k.a. Hallucinogen) mixes a little folk music (guitars/violins) into his rich electronic stew...Mmmm. 

Infinite Excursions 2 [TIP] -- trance/dub featuring The Infinity Project, Doof and Green Nuns of the Revolution

Front 242 "Headhunter 2000" [Metropolis] -- 17 mixes of this track is a bit much to listen to straight through, but there's a few shining gems here including Front Line Assembly's, Empirion's and Space Frog's. 

Bigger Dirtier Beats [Moonshine] -- It's got the likes of Omar Santana, Lunatic Calm, Cirrus, The Wiseguys -- 's' all good!  

Bonkers 3 [React] -- Three CDs mixed by Hixxy, Sharkey and Dougal respectively.  Depending on your tolerance to happy hardcore this compilation will either have you shakin' yer arse or pluggin' yer ears.  This is a LOT of music.    

This is Noize [Sony/Columbia] -- More happy hardcore presented by Hixxy and Force & Styles.  Disc one is a mixed retrospective and disc two is an unmixed selection of newer trax.    
 
Lush Classics : The Best of British Melodic Trance [Lush] -- "Unlike many of today's releases the Lush suites are carefully planned cycles, supported not only by their overall key structure, but also in the fact that they are constructed using similar technique.  Within each of these you will find many classical methods applied with today's technology."  'Couldn't have said it better myself.  Lawrence Elliot Potter is the MAN.  NOTE : Also check out his Quietman album "Shhhh" and his Sadie Glutz project, "The Boy From Outer Space."  Beautiful stuff.  

Dope On Plastic 6 [React] -- Jazzy hip-hop and experimental chillout-lounge material.

Panacea "Low Profile Darkness"
Panacea "Twisted Designz" [Force Inc.] -- Dark 'n' brooding German tech-step D'N'B.  It's described as the missing link between Digital Hardcore Recording's Alec Empire and No U-Turn's Ed Rush. 

Saigon Incoming [No U-Turn] -- More tech-step.  

Real Vibes [True Playaz] -- Junglists DJ Hype and Zinc are back with another other comp.  I don't know if I like it as much as their first.  Hearing 'em scratch is pretty cool though. 

Whew!  An' I done left stuff out, too!  Somebody revoke my CD-buying privileges or I'm liable to go bankrupt here!

Anyway...it's...um...good GAME DEVELOPING music.  Yeah.

I wanna go back to the...BLUE ROOM.

---



I just remembered I have a plan file!  ‘Funny how things like that manage to slip by me for so long.    

A big shout to everyone I saw "CUBE" with last Friday.  You know who you are.  It was nice meeting you Ritual people and chewing the fat with some of ION Storm’s new recruits.   Everyone else who’s reading this : SEE "CUBE."  Or rent it.  I’m told it may actually be coming out on video very soon.   

‘Gots ta give tha mad props to ION Storm’s Anachronox crew.  I haven’t seen the new trailer yet (Jake, you tease!) but what I HAVE seen (thanks Lee Dotson and Joshua Jay) made my head spin, fall off and roll around on the floor pinball-style.

And oh – what’s this?  I’ve been working on DNF level sketches with mad mapperz Charlie Wiederhold and Keith Schuler.  What’s cool about this you ask?  These guys can take my flat, lifeless drawings and turn them into LOCATIONS.  Tell me that’s not totally tripped out.  Digital architects -- that’s what they are.  It’s a pleasure to help out with their "blueprints."  

‘Went raving in Austin over the weekend.  Austin game developers : YOU’VE GOT IT SOOOOO GOOD!  3DR should relocate!  (Whadayasay, guys?  ‘Sound good?)  I bought lots o’ cool tunes while I was down there, including… 
 
PAUL’S MUSIC PICK O’ THE DAY :

Sunkings "Soul Sleeping" [BLUE ROOM RELEASED] – ambient trance from the other side of the f@%king UNIVERSE  

Okay…That be it for me.

ONE LAST THING : When my last plan update adorned this page, I was all jittery about going to visit my girlfriend in Georgia.  Well, I’m happy to report that everything worked out fabulously, and she’s since been to Dallas to visit me!  That went well, too.  I’m going back to see her in February for Valentine’s Day.  Huzzah!  This girl is everything to me, so thanks to everyone who pitched in with advice when I was nervous!    

P.L.U.R.
Paul
Sept. 2, 1998

Tomorrow's the big day.  I'll be getting back on the 9th, so that means you won't have to put up with my incessant rantings for nearly a week!  Everybody be cool, 'kay?

-Paul

Sept. 1, 1998 [the sequel]

Two updates in one day!  Paul Richards is a man possessed!

The reason I'm making an addition to today's entry is that I forgot someone very important when I composed my "favorite cartoonists" list, and that someone is Paul Chadwick.  Paul Chadwick is the creator of Dark Horse Press's "Concrete," and in addition to being an incredible artist he has a genuine flair for realistic storytelling.  If you aren't sure what I mean, there's myriad graphic novels out there to choose from, including his newest story, "Think Like a Mountain" which, because it's something of a retrospective, is a perfect introduction to the character.

Oh, and "Bill Watterson" is spelled with two "t"s.  My mistake.

Everybody be cool...YOU be cool.
-Paul


Sept. 1, 1998

Aaargh! Two more days!  I can hardly wait for my vacation time!

Must...buy...CDs...to...divert...attention!

1.8.7. "Quality Rolls" [Liquid Sky] -- Another smashing drum 'n' bass album from one of New York's finest junglists!  Muy bueno!

Aug.  31, 1998

Howdy, folks!  (That's Texas talk.)

Did anybody end up going to "Chemistry" on Saturday night?  I stopped in for a while after seeing "Studio 54" (awful movie, BTW) with some of my friends from ION Storm.  The party was packed and DAMP.  No fun at all.  'Too many people standing around/milling about/sitting on their asses.  The music really wasn't there, either.  Oh, to be back in Midwest rave scene!  To hear hard trance and gabberhouse in the mix again!

'Got some CDs this weekend :

FRONT LINE ASSEMBLY "RE-WIND" [Metropolis Records] -- Yes!  CD Now finally got around to mailing me this arse-whuppin' double disc!  It features remixes of tracks from their "FLAvour of the Weak" album, some done by Bill Leeb (the first disc), the rest by various artists like Front 242, Eat Static and Cydonia (the second disc).  

GEARWHORE "DRIVE" [Astralwerks/Caroline] -- Astralwerks comes through yet again with another solid release.  Think of Future Sound of London meets Underworld meets...oh, I'm not going to try to categorize it!  You go listen!  It's awesome!  

CIRRUS "BACK ON A MISSION" [Moonshine] -- Great breaks, great melodies, guitar riffs, etc.  Loose the lyrics.  I can do with a little bit of "MCing" now and again, but when you put too much of it in a techno album it makes it sound [gasp!] commercial.  'Good party disc, though.   I still dig it.  It's an improvement from last year's "Drop the Break."               

Well, only 3 more days until I go to see Miss. Right.  I'm getting a little nervous, people!  Not too nervous, though.  I'm still cool, calm and collected.  Worst case scenario : my flight gets delayed/cancelled.  It's stuff like that that worries me, not Miss. Right herself.  She is, after all, Miss. Right.  What could possibly go wrong?    

Wish me luck!
-Paul

Aug. 27, 1998

Here are some nifty tools that make my job as a pencil monkey a whole lot easier :

-flexible curve
-pigma micron brushes
-pigma micron technical pens
-rolling ruler 
-light box
-lightwave (for tricky perspective stuff)

Use 'em!  You'll see how awesome they are!  
-Paul


Aug. 26, 1998

Since Jim's been spazzin' over Jack Kirby and Mike Mignola lately, I decided to make a quick list of some cartoonists I find inspirational.  Listed next to each one is a comic project they've done.  

Yukito Kishiro - Battle Angel Alita
Jim Woodring - Frank
Mark Martin - Tantalizing Stories
Mike Allred - Madman
Steve Bissette - Swamp Thing
Rick Veitch - Rare Bit Fiends
Jhonen Vasquez - Johnny the Homicidal Maniac
Rob Schrab - Scud : The Disposable Assassin
Jeff Smith - Bone
Mark Shultz - Xenozoic Tales
Steve Purcell - Sam & Max
Ben Edlund - The Tick
Kevin Eastman & Peter Laird - Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
Bill Waterson - Calvin & Hobbes
Frank Cho - University 2
Masamune Shirow - Ghost in the Shell
Evan Dorkin - Dork! / Milk & Cheese
Adam Warren - Dirty Pair
Geoff Darrow - Hard Boiled

Any fans out there?

Aug. 25, 1998

This message is for Wendy just in case she happens by tonight!  Hi, Wendy!  This is my .plan file!  Woo!  Aren't you proud of me???

Aug. 24, 1998

Rave review!
"Nocturnal Nation", despite being located in the rather spacious Dallas Music Complex, quickly became congested.  Lee (DeathJester) Dotson and I got there early, which was a good thing and a bad thing.  Good because parking was relatively painless and there was plenty of room for dancing.  Bad because we wore ourselves out before the party actually started heating up!  [How ya feelin', Lee?  Lemme guess : SORE!]  
MUSIC RUNDOWN : House in the main room, followed by a live analog PA by Turtle (minimal acid that tried to be Richie Hawtin but fell short), followed by a good jungle DJ (the crowd went spastic when he put on Prisoners of Technology's remix of the Beastie Boys' "Intergalactic"), followed by Southside Reverb's Kelly Reverb (spinning mostly breaks -- some of which were his own tracks -- and hard house).  Finally, Rabbit in the Moon went on, opening up with their classic anthem "Out of Body Experience."  The fellow with the disco-ball suit dancing around on stage throwing glowsticks, if I'm not mistaken, was DJ Monk.  Though I didn't stick around for it, DJ DRC from San Francisco threw down a two hour set right after finishing her late-night guest mix on Edgeclub.  It was probably really good, but conditions were such that I wouldn't have been able to fully enjoy it.             
Two other rooms specialized in drum'n'bass, one in ambient and a fourth (located outside) in mellow house.  Basically something for everybody.

'Lots of neat lights, lasers, projections and video mixing.
'Worth my $20.
 
NEXT SATURDAY @ THE SAME VENUE : "CHEMISTRY" Be there!

'Spent Sunday afternoon playing volleyball with some of my friends from ION.  Big up to Bill and Jim [tha Daly bruthas] for being such consistently good hosts!  See you next Sunday, guys!  (This time I will bring $$$!)    

Aug. 22, 1998

What can I say?  I'm overwhelmed that so many of you were kind enough to offer love suggestions.   What's more overwhelming is that many of them were right on the money in terms of what I was looking for.  Heartfelt.  Honest.  Thanks for your concern, all!

Additional, additional : RAVE tonight!  Rabbit in the Moon will be performing live at the Dallas Music Complex.  ("Nocturnal Nation" info line : 972-994-3561)  'Party starts at 8:00.  I'll be heading out there with Lee (skin god) Dotson from ION Storm's Anachronox team, and possibly some of the 3DRealms guys.  It promises to be a lot of fun, so if you're in for an evening of counterculture, I highly recommend meeting us there!

Peace Out!
-Paul

----
The following is everything I've typed up until today, in chronological order.  I've been informed that all the new stuff is supposed to go on TOP.  Hehe!
---

Man, it's dark in here.  'Can't see my hand in front of my face.  Maybe if I light this torch it'll be easier to find my way around this godforsaken -- Eeyaah! SPIDERS!  Getemoffgetemoffgetemoff!!    

Hey, what gives?  I just typed a bunch of stuff and none of it went through.  This is a test.  If something goes wrong again I think I might cry.

Okay, okay...
I think I have this .plan file jazz worked out now.

I type stuff in another program and paste it into the text box.  Simple.

I must confess, though, that I've been getting some peculiar email.  A Timothy Seaton (alias Dr. Bob) said it would really make his day if I extended a gracious "hello" to someone named Sarah Schneider (presumably his sweetheart), so here 'goes :

*Ahem*
"Hello, Sarah Schneider!"

I know neither of these people personally, but have a soft spot for lovebirds, being one myself.  So Tim & Sarah : best wishes.      

To anyone else who might be reading, just see me as a conduit for your positive vibes.  I don't have much use for the other variety.

Peace, Love, Unity & Respect!
-Paul Richards          

I have a correction to make about yesterday's addition.
Yup.
'Seems I was wrong to refer to Miss. Sarah Schneider as the "sweetheart" of one Timothy Seaton.

"I just have to correct you on one thing." blushes Seaton, "She really is one of my best friends, but we are not lovebirds."

Poor, poor Timothy.  I too know the feeling of "just wanting to be friends" but fret not, there are plenty of eligible women out there just waiting to fall head over heels in love with you.

Good luck and Godspeed.

-Paul    

Not to flaunt my meager two weeks at id, but I think everybody ought to know how sweet Ms. Donna (id mom) Jackson is.  I'm sure a lot of you are already familiar.  Heck, for all I know she has an official fan club somewhere!  Ms. Donna is the incarnation of Southern hospitality, from her freindly (though sometimes lenghy :) morning chats to her willingness to help out whenever you've got a problem.  She even nicknamed me "baby P.R." to help me feel more like one of the group.  'Marvelous woman.  Thanks again for getting me those plane tickets!

I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank the rest of the id crew for being just as cool to me as Ms. Donna.  'Can't wait to see Quake Arena, guys! 

Kevin : Supportive you were.  Thankful am I.
Adrian : Your sketchbooks made me drool!  ('Sorry if I smeared anything :)
Paul S. : I still haven't made it to Lonestar.  Maybe next week.  ('Just picked up Major Bummer #15 -- Why did you have to be right?)
Paul J : How was France?
Tim : Your advice concerning "questionable reading material" was kindly noted.
Brandon : 'Still waiting for that Front Line Assembly remix album.  CD now be damned!

------
Now I'm going to delve into something a bit more personal.

On labor day weekend I'll be leaving Texas to visit someone very special to me, so if any of you out there have love advice, drop me a line.  Mind you, this isn't just your average, workaday woman.  I'm talking about   someone who, in all possibly, is THE most awesome girl on the planet.  I really want to make a good impression.  PERVERTS TAKE NOTE : This isn't an invitation to make lewd, sexual remarks.  I'm simply looking for some romantic insight, especially from the female perspective (hint, hint, ladies).  Cupid has hit me pretty hard. 

Keep Chillin',
Paul