
Name: Mike Gummelt
Email: mgummelt@ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Jedi Knight2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wow, been a long time since I updated my .plan file...

Just wanted to say a couple things about JK2...

I see the mod community is very eager to get started
making mods and we are working on getting all the
tools ready for release.  As soon as we're sure they
work 100%, we'll release them - we don't want to release
them only to have to release them a few more times
if people have problems with them... please be patient... :)

There are a few mods out there, already, that I've seen...
There are some skins (I've seen an alternate MotS-era 
Kyle, an alternate Luke, a Darth Maul and a few others 
already) and I see there are a good number of maps waiting 
to be BSPed for JK2.  A couple people have responded to my
open invitation to BSP any maps that are ready for release
(in retrospect, that was a much larger task than I anticipated
because of some of the changes between Elite Force and JK2, 
but, hopefully, we'll see some maps coming out soon).

One map that is out that I recommend is the "Ladder" map, 
it's a single-player map that basically starts you out 
with full force powers fighting one Reborn in an arena-like 
room (similar to one of the JK2 multiplayer duel maps).  
After taking him out, you fight 2 of them, then move up to 
the next hardest Reborn, etc, etc, up through something like 
50+ Reborn... basically, a non-stop saber-combat fest.  
Since it seems like that was one of the favorite parts of 
JK2 for a lot of people, I suspect you'll like this first 
SP mod map.  The music isn't quite Star Wars-y, but it's fun 
and, if you don't want it, there's even a 500K or so download 
for the map without music.

Anyway, just a heads up and a big thanks to the JK2 community...

BTW - you should be able to find and download these mods at

www.JediKnightII.net - Click on "Home" under the "Files" section
in the menu on the left.

And:

www.Massassi.net - look at the "Downloads" part of the menu
on the left (note that they have downloads for the 1997 original
Jedi Knight game as well as some for Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast).
