Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Mike Gummelt
Email: mgummelt@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: ???
Last Updated: 05/05/1998 20:32:44 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tuesday, May 5, 8:21 PM

Well, Siege testing went pretty good Sunday night,
I found some nice juicy bugs and eliminated them.
Today I decided I was definitely going to put in
the Dwarf playerclass I just finished some final
tweaks and bug fixes on him.  He has only 2 weapons,
the hammer and the axe, but they're good weapons
since they're of Dwarven construction.  He is
the best digger and is the best at breaking stuff.
He is light enough to make it over the wall via the
catapult if you're good.  He's short and somewhat
slow with shorter reach so you won't be using him
to melee or load catapults too often.  He also
sinks like a stone in water and can't hold his breath
as long (panics).  He has three cool abilities:
he regenerates health at a steady pace up to
75% of his max, he goes berzerk occaisionally for
30 seconds if his health is really low and he's
hit hard, and, finally, if someone steps into
the darkness, they glow red in his view since
he can "see" the heat emanating from them.  He also
starts with all the armor and gets very good
protections from it (once again, Dwarven-made).
He is also immune to all magic (helpful or harmful).
So while he is a weak fighter and slow, he is
a small target and pretty hard to kill...

This helps balance out the classes some more too,
so now you have the:

Paladin - best Melee fighter.
Crusader - has lots of enhancing spells, only healer.
Necromancer - has lots of destructive spells, can
	become a giant Beast.
Assassin - stealthiest, best used to sneak in and
	find the key or sabotage the enemy, has
	best long-range attacks.
Succubus - has ability to glide and fly, has a good
	array of weapons.
Dwarf - best for digging into/out of the castle, breaking
	down doors, chains and ramparts, light enough to
	catapult in.

If all goes well (and it looks like it will), I will
be doing one more testing session at 7pm Wednesday,
then releasing the 1st public beta.  Some of the
art (especially the Dwarf's) will still be only
partially done, but it will be playable.

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Friday, May 1, 3:54 PM

Don't kill me!

I've decided Siege could use some more testing before
I release it to the public and I need some more
time to put in some more art, write the .doc up
nicely, etc.  And since Lynn (my fiancee) is here
until Sunday afternoon, I won't get much done
between 6PM today and Sunday, so it's going to
have to wait (This is her first time out here
since I moved out here over a year ago!  You
understand...)  Anyway, I fully expect a very
nearly complete, easy-to-use, stable version
of Siege to be out on Wednesday, May 6 after a few
solid days of testing and tweaking...

Thanks for your patience...

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, April 30, 3:02 PM

OK, I have an idea, and I'm seriously considering it...
A new playerclass for Siege- the Dwarven Fighter.

He would have an axe and hammer, he would be half
player height, run faster than a crouched player but
slower than a standing player, he would be immune to
poison and magic, he would have a good number of
hitpoints, be fairly strong, be the best tunneler,
a poor swimmer, could be shot farther by catapults,
his armor would be the best since Dwarves are so
good at metallurgy and binding magic into their metals-
his weapons would either be pretty strong or have some
sort of magic effect bound to them, and he may have
some sort of "danger sense" since Dwarves are supposed
to be fairly prescient.

What I need is: A model!  It would have a Viking type
of outfit, with the horns on the helmet...  He could
be animated at 10 fps rather than 20, no problem to 
implement codewise, and he would need these animations:
standing - axe (12 frames)
standing - hammer (12)
running - axe (6)
running - hammer (6)
hitting - axe (6)
hitting - hammer (6)
pain - axe (6)
pain - hammer (6)
swimming - axe (10)
swimming - hammer (10)
death (20)
decapitation (20)

I'd estimate maybe 130 frames, but the hammer/axe
versions could be duplicated depending on the 
animation method used- the decap could simply 
be the death anim with the head shoved in the neck, 
so it could probably be done with only 60 unique 
frames to animate.

And I would call him "Hank"

If anyone is seriously interested in being a
part of HISTORY, and you think you can do it
within 2 weeks, let me know!

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 29, 9:37AM

Siege is coming along nicely, I've stopped working
on implementing big new features or heavy bug-fixing
and I'm working on making it more user-friendly and
pretty.  I put in an icon for the .exe, a new
console backdrop, and put some special characters
in the font for the Siege info display that replaces
the standard frag count display- this one shows
how much time is left, how many defenders have
been killed and how many attackers have been killed.
I also replaced the standard help screens with some
helpful information on how to play Siege.

I've been talking to some people who volunteered to
do artwork for me and I've very grateful for all the
responses- the artists here are very busy with
Heretic 2 and while I can scribble a decent doodle,
I'm no artist.  If I can get all the things these
guys are offering, Siege will look very nice indeed!

In addition, I'm talking to Phoebus over at
HexenWorld about setting up an official Siege
website for me- hosted by HexenWorld.  If that gets
going, then I'll have a nice, neat official place
to put my updates, news, tips, requests, and downloads...

Thanks for all you enthusiasm!

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 28, 10:15AM

Hey All,
     Well, I've been working on Siege just about a week and
a half now and I think I'll be ready to release a beta on Friday.
It's been a little difficult to test here since everyone else is so
busy on their respective projects.  The version I release should
have all the main features except a few spells maybe, and won't
look as pretty as the final version and I try to get some art made
(any volunteers?) for this and that and get Terata to finish up the
map Perf Cuervo made.  So far it's got the weapons for each
class, most of the spells for them, the abilities I've done so far,
and all the other stuff I mentioned in my finger as well as a couple
things I was going to try to get in there- mainly the greek fire,
the sapping tunnel, and the ripples in the pool to detect diggers.
I'll try to test it and tweak it the remainder of the week and try
to get that first beta out on Friday.  Do me a favor and playtest
it (I'll include full instructions) and let me know of any bugs you
find (I'm sure there'll be a few) and any comments, suggestions, etc.
you may have about it...

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Monday, Aprill 20, 7:40 PM

Well, from what I know from Rick, there will be one
more release (with some stuff from Zoid) and that
version should be fully compatible with (but may not
include) Siege.  Rick is going to put in a system for
some extended entity-to-entity client side physics
to that pushing barrels and catapults doesn't look
really freaky to people with lag.  Siege itself should
just be a map, some sounds & models, and a new 
progs.dat.  Siege should be out within 2 weeks- I 
just put in Greek Fire today- next I want to work on
putting in the mining/sapping tunnel that you can use
to collapse a wall- but a pool in the center of the
castle court will show ripples if someone is digging-
this will allow the defenders to start a counter-tunnel.

BTW, thanks for all the suggestions so far, I'll let
you know what I end up implementing...


cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Saturday, April 18, 6:35PM

Alright, here's the specifics on which class has what
and what tactics/engines are in the game so far:

Note that all players start with all their weapons and
abilities.  They require "ammo" for some weapons, but
require mana only for spells.

Paladin:
The paladin has a Sword (which is better against flesh
than, say, wood), an Axe (which is better against wood),
and a bow (which he is not accurate at all with but
has nice range).  He is the best swimmer and has higher
strength and health than the others and comes in full
armor.

Assassin:
The assassin has a dagger, with which she can backstab
with.  Her second weapon is a crossbow, her third is a
welsh longbow with flaming arrows, and her final "weapon"
is her tripwire explosives.  She has no spells, but she
has three special abilities- she can backstab, hide in
shadows, and scale walls.  She comes with one piece of
armor.  She is the 2nd fastest and most accurate of the 5
classes.

Crusader:
The crusader only has one weapon, a hammer.  However, he
has several spells- casting cost in parentheses:
Heal (5) - Heals 5 points of health on self or other.
Enchant Hammer (10) - Basically "tomes" hammer
? (15) - open slot - suggestions?
Mercurial Speed (20) - Super-speed (self/other)
Berzerker (30) - Super-strength (self/other)
Cloak of Perseus (40) - Invisibility (self/other)
Wrath of God (full mana, sacrifice) - Crusader dies, but all
     within his view are struck by lightning.
As of now, I have no special abilities for the crusader.
He comes with 3 pieces of armor.

Necromancer:
The Necromancer has his sickle and a bow for weapons-
he has poor range and accuracy with his bow.  He has
six spells in addition to these weapons:
Magic Missiles (2) - Like his 2nd weapon in HW.
Poison (15) - Poisons someone (like Succ. glyph in HW)
Polymorph (30) - Turn someone into a sheep.
Delayed Fireball (40) - Like the paladin's glyph in HW
Summon Imp (60) - Like the Summoning Stone in HW
Become Beast (100) - You become a giant beast for
     3 minutes, able to trample people, crush catapults,
     bash down doors, take great amounts of damage,
     and start quakes by jumping.
The Necromancer has no armor and no abilities.

Succubus:
The succubus is the balance between fighter and mage-
she has 4 weapons and 4 spells and 1 ability.
Her weapons are her bloodrain, a sword, a crossbow,
and grenades.  Her spells:
Repulsion (10) - Like the Disc of Repulsion
? - Unused slot- suggestions?
? - Unused slot- suggestions?
Flight (100) - Allows her to fly freely for a couple
     minutes.
Sher has the ability to glide slowly and comes with
2 pieces of armor.  She is the fastest runner of all 5
classes.

Mana regenerates slowly, there is none to pick up, and
you start with none.  Mana regenerates faster for the
Crusader, but the Necromancer has a higher maximum mana
limit.  The Crusader utilizes blue mana, the Necromancer
and Succubus require green mana.

There are no artifacts to pick up besides:

They Throne Room Key (opens the throne room)
A key-finding device (the former cube of force)
Imprisonment Icon (teleports target into the prison- they
     can try to break out)
Ring of water-breathing (makes pirhana ignore you, can
     hold breath a long time).

And, of course, arrows, grenades and tripwire glyphs.

Also, as the time limit approaches, the outdoor
light sources fade down, simulating nightfall and
giving attackers a cover of darkness to operate under.

Siege machines/tactics implemented so far are:

Defense:
4 Ballistas on the defense towers.
Spikes on the front of the tower to skewer anything (or
anyone) trying to catapult over)
Ramparts to provide cover while attacking and also to
     prevent people from catapulting over.
A moat with ravenous pirhana in it.
A prison to keep captured attackers in.
Several doors and gates that can be closed and locked,
     but can also be bashed down.
A small contigent of Mezzomen to guard the inner court.

Attackers:
Catapults
Possible sewer entrance.
Device to help find locate the position of the key.

Other ideas planned, if desired:
Trebuchets?
Greek fire (both sides)
Highly unstable but powerful bombard.
Mining/sapping techniques.
Battering rams?
Siege towers/ladders?

Any other ideas? Comments?

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Friday, April 17, 2:26PM

Ok, Project Y is coming out very soon, within two weeks
hopefully (I'm the only one working on it right now, so
that's the reason for the delay). It's a multiplayer 
mode for Hexenworld that somehow got leaked to PC Games
so I presume it's okay to talk about it... it's called 
"Siege" and basically it goes like this:

The map is a castle/keep with ramparts, a drawbridge, a 
moat with pirhana, a prison, ballistas, a porticullis
and a sewer. The defenders must keep the attackers from
getting into the castle and capturing the crown.  The 
attackers have catapults (I'm working on a couple other 
siege engine ideas) and unlimited ammo (the guys on the 
inside starts with more ammo but it doesn't respawn). 
There is a time limit and the attackers must find some 
way to get into the castle (there's the obvious way of 
breaking down the main gate, plus some more obscure ways-
I'm going to try to simulate sappers). The outdoor lighting
gets darker as the game goes on and when the time limit is
over, the defenders win (simulating the arrival of an army
to lift the siege). If the attackers do get in the castle,
they must find the keymaster (a defender who has the key to
the throneroom), kill him and get up the tower and into 
the throneroom to capture the crown. The weapons are limited
to the realistic ones with some characters having magic 
spells and special abilities (for example: the Assassin can
scale walls, the Demoness can fly if she has enough mana
to cast that spell).
	Anyway, I'm going to try to get this done within 
2 weeks, so keep an eye out for Project Y AKA "Siege".

Tomorrow I'll list the weapons, spells and abilties of
each class as well as the siege engines and tactics implemented.
I'd be happy to recieve any suggestions for more ideas to
implement as well, after I've listed those.  Check back
tomorrow.

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, April 2, 2:27PM

Hmmm... so what's new?  Well, now that I'm working
on HexenWorld, I have some time to update my finger.
HexenWorld's next release is coming along nicely.
I put in the fifth class and other changes from
the Mission Pack and Nathan is almost done makeing
her "net-friendly".  Also, I believe the MP hit the
shelves today so take a hammer to those piggy banks
and buy the sucker- it's worth it!  And, of course,
those of you luck enough to have the MP will be able
to play the Demoness in HexenWorld (others will just
have to watch others fragging them with the Tempest
Staff and such).

Once HexenWorld is done, I'll be adding "Project Y"
to it as a new multiplayer mode- we tried it out
here about a couple months ago and it was I big
hit- I think you'll all love it!

After HexenWorld, I believe I'll be on Heretic II
for a short time, then move over to "Project Z" (or
"Project XXX" and Rick likes to call it for publicity
purposes...)

By the way, I recently bought some CD's now that I'm
being paid for my work (I finally paid off my
indentured servitude!  Woo-hoo!).  No, seriously, though,
I bought Madonna's album, Kundun, Dark City and
Siouxsie and the Banshee's classic "Peepshow".  All
of these are excellant albums and I highly recommend
them!  Other techno/soundtrack stuff I highly recommend:
Peter Gabriel's "Passion"
Lords of Acid- "Voodoo U" and "Our Little Secret"
Fluke- "Risotto"
Alien3
Bram Stoker's Dracula
Conan the Barbarian (newly mastered version)
The Piano

Ok, now that I've been presumptuous enough to think
you care what music I like, I'll go away...

Oh, one last little note- as of tomorrow, April 3,
I'll have been here at Raven for exactly 1 year!
Yay me!  Unfortunately, that means I've been apart
from my fiancee for 1 year... but, good news is
she's coming up to visit me at the end of April!
Woo-hoo!

Au revoir

cut here
8<---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, March 19, 4:51 PM

Well, I haven't updated my finger in a while,
and I suddenly find that I have a lot of free
time on my hands (meaning...?) Yes, you should
be seeing the Mission Pack very very soon if
all goes well!  And I guarantee it will be much
more stable than Hexen 2 when it shipped (unless
I'm completely missing some major bugs!).  The
Mission Pack really rules, it's got some great
new features and lots of little details and fixes
like:

First the obvious stuff:
New class!  Demoness is a kick-ass character-
	and she looks GREAT!  She has some very
	cool new weapons with some awesome effects-
	I especially like the firestorm and the
	lightning ball weapons, very cool.
Yakman - These guys are really cool, very tough,
	and pretty scary- they can charge you,
	gore you, freeze you and slap you silly.
	Very effective!
Pentacles - The wall-crawlers- these guys are working
	perfectly now- they can crawl along walls
	and jump from surface to surface to get to
	you- and they blend in with the wall so
	they're hard to see...
New werecats!  The Were SnowLeopard and Siberian
	WereTiger will kick your ass,