Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Mike Gummelt
Email: mgummelt@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 11/19/1998 13:07:34 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oh, we went GOLD last night...

Cut Here:
8<--------------------------------------------------------

When John Glenn returns from space, everybody dress in Ape Suits.
Pass it on.

Cut Here:
8<--------------------------------------------------------

1:55 PM, Tuesday, October 27, 1998

I usually don't have time to update my finger, but this
kinds of needs to be said:

THERE IS NO LISCENCE AGREEMENT VIOLATION IN RUNNING
THE TWO SINGLE PLAYER MAPS FROM THE DEMO ON A DM SERVER.

There.  Now unless Activision contacts me and paddles
me, this is the truth as far as I've been able to
figure out.  Probably some happy fanboy being an
asscake.

Now that I've said that, let me caution you:

You shouldn't run the canyon DM.  The problem is that
the endgame trigger at the end of the canyon wasn't
disabled in DM.  So any player who doesn't know better
can step into it and everyone will go to the happy
end demo "thanks for playing now buy the game" screen.

Also, there are kill brushes on the map at long drops
that kinda suck in DM...

I'm working on a server-only fix for these.. the endgame
trigger will be disabled, and those death triggers will
become random teleports.  When the final version of the
game comes out, though, those maps will be altered to
work better in DM.  For now though, wait for the server-only
DM fix Pat Lipo will be releasing...

Cut Here:
8<--------------------------------------------------------

3:43 AM, Friday, October 24, 1998

Ok, a real update this time!

Just played MORE Heretic 2 DM... I really think it's
ten times better than 1st person DM... seeing just how
close you got to be fried but escaping is really cool.

Anyhow, I'm going to throw my hat in the ring as well
about taking suggestions.  I've done most of the monster
coding and wuold appreciate any comments and suggestions
on those.  But, seeing as how there's no time for
new animations and such, any new stuff is going to
be severely limited.  In addition, I'd like to get all
you comments (I'm going to regret this) on multiplayer.
I want to make sure it's balanced, fair, diverse, and
fun.  Of my work on Hexen2 and HexenWorld and Siege, 
MP stuff has always been a lot of fun, and something I
feel like I've become a bit of an authority on.

So.

Barring rediculous last-minute suggestions ("Make 3 more
player classes!", "More weapons!", "Siege!"), please
send me your suggestions/comments.  I know a lot of
people have been asking for a real female player model,
but this is one of those last-minute things that are
just unrealistic.  What I would like to do is see if we
can get Brian Shubat to make one after the game is out,
apply all of Corvus' 230+ anims to her (maybe a new
skirt node for more costume variations?) and have
our artists do about 3 or so skins for her.  I think
that would add a lot and satisfy all you women who
want to play a woman (and all you sexually confused
Xena-wannabe men too!!!)

Anyhoo, doors are open to suggestion, e-mail me at:

mgummelt@mail.ravensoft.com

Cut Here:
8<--------------------------------------------------------


12:50 AM, Monday, Octorber 19, 1998

James Monroe wrote a Quake2Unreal.exe (AKA C2UScript)
code conversion tool last weekend, it takes about
3 hours, but it's almost perfect.  We'll be working
on a Q2Build and a Q2Doom utility too, cross-engine
compatibility is the key to $$$!  Our quake2 engine
demo will be the first to be released, followed by
the Unreal a week later, then Build, then Doom, and
finally a version made with a Q2DeerHunter conversion
tool.  This game will work on ANY machine and appeal
to everyone!

More developments tomorrow...

Cut Here:
8<--------------------------------------------------------

Friday, October 16, 1998

So, work on "InterGalactic Baby CyberMonkey-Seals 
Must Be Eviscerated: Heretic 2" is going well.
You should see the box art!  Basically, as the story goes,
sometime after Corvus defeated D'Spairil, the "BananaRama",
a spaceship of InterGalactic CyberMonkey Pirates crash-lands
on the polar cap of Parthoris.  The CyberMonkey Pirates,
their ship in ruins, explore the polar cap and come upon
a group of cute, cuddly, little baby seals.  Being pirates,
they rape them.  When the bastard abomination baby hybrid
monkey-seals are born, they are barely alive and the 
CyberMonkeys use the remnants of their ship to give them
cyber-implants to protect them from the cold.  Then, the
adult CyberMonkeys die of exposure to the elements.  The
InterGalactic Baby CyberMonkey-Seals, made emotionally
unstable by the loss of their loving parents, go on a
rampage and find their way to the peaceful lands of
Parthoris, raping and pillaging along the way.  There is
only one Man/Elf who can stop them.  Corvus.

Speaking of Corvus, his size DD breasts are coming along
nicely.  Our "Breastagons" are working out very well- its
a specialized polygon system designed specifically to 
perfectly mimic real-world mammarian physics and 
triple sales figures.  We're even doing "Dead or Alive"
one better by giving you a "breast bounciness" SLIDER,
not just on/off.  And our breasts are independantly
dynamic- if you do the right combination of moves, you
can get the left one rotating clockwise and the right one
counter-clockwise (or even vice-versa with slight alterations
to your movement!)  They will be on Corvus' back so the
player can see them during gameplay, unlike Tomb Raider!

Ok.  Ok, so I lied.  Everything I've just said is a base,
evil deceit.  Oh well,maybe next game.

NEXT: What we're REALLY doing...

Cut Here:
8<--------------------------------------------------------

October 2, 11:07 AM

I'm back!  Actually, I'm updating my finger to tell y'all
to check out a screenshot posted by Mr. Josh Weier that
shows off some of our cool-ass in-game weapon effects.
This particular weapon effect is a flaming staff.  This
screenshot also shows off some of our awesome gibs-
I must say, our game has the most satisfying death and
dismemberment I have ever seen in a game to date, no
joke!  So check out that screenshot at:

http://www.activision.com/games/hereticii

And NO, it's not doctored, it's an actual in-game
screenshot, unmodified in any way.

The game in general is coming along really well, our
effects look incredible, are maps are really cool,
our art is still the best in the business, and the monsters
are doing some cool stuff now that I've had a chance
to go back and work more on the Buoyah Navigation
System.  Monsters should be able to find you
just about anywhere and get there intelligently.
The designers are now going through and doing some
cool and creative monster placement, and we have some
very cool scripted in-game cinematic sequences- this
game is seriously going to rock!!!


Cut Here:
8<--------------------------------------------------------

August 11, 9:56 AM

"NAM" Rocks!!!  BUY "NAM"!!!
(more below)

I'm back!

So I've been married for almost
three weeks now, and we're still
unpacking!  Next we buy a couch,
some nightstands, a few filing
cabinets and a buttload of
bookshelves!  Anyway we made
our first home-cooked meal last
night in the new kitchen so
it's starting to feel like home.

The wedding and reception itself
went off really well, Lynn had
arranged it on a river boat and
the weather was perfect.  Couldn't
have gone any better.  Our
Honeymoon was very nice too, 
even though I did get sunburnt...

Ok, so I'm back and working on
Heretic 2.  So far I've worked
some on the Plague Elf, penisaurs
(gorgons), Plague Ssithra, 
Assassins and now the T'Chekrik.
(I've also worked on a few small
but nice player things and Josh
Weier and I devised a pretty cool
high-level AI and the awesome
Buoyah! Monster Navigation System.
Coming soon to a store near you!

NAM!

Ok, so a few weeks ago I saw NAM
in the stores, thought "oh,
that's kinda a cool idea", picked
it up and looked at the back and
said "oh my god, what is this,
Doom?" The graphics were pixelly
and it certainly didn't look very
3-D.  Nowhere on the box did it
say what engine it was using so
I figured it was a poor Doom
clone engine.

So I come back from my Honeymoon,
I look at the box again and I
realize the guy who did Marines
Doom made NAM.  Marines Doom was
a really cool, really different
mod for Doom.  Also, I had worked
with Dan Snyder and Lt. Burnett on
a Marines Doom 2 in which I added
medics, land mines, spreading
fire, air strikes, suicide bombers
that run up to you and explode,
attack helicopters, hostages, 
and a few more nice funky things.
So I figured I'd pick it up if
for no other reason but to see
what Mr. Snyder did with the game.
Then I found out it uses the Build
Engine which in my opinion is still
a valid gameplay engine- Duke
Multiplayer was my favorite
multiplayer- still is besides
Siege & NAM.  (Outlaws is up
there too, though that is awesome
single player too).

Anyway, I brought it back here,
a couple of us tried it out and
everyone's first reaction was
"my god that is UGLY!"  And it
is.  But we kept playing.  And
playing.  And playing.  So far
now we've played a 2 man coop
through Tour of Duty I and a 4
man coop though Tour of Duty II.

********************************
I can honestly say that this is
by far the most fun Multiplayer
I HAVE EVER PLAYED!!!
********************************

(excluding Raven's own "Siege" since
I'm a bit biased there).

It's hard to say what makes it so
much fun.  There are tons of enemies,
well hidden in the brush, the level
design is well done to create confusion
and tension, the graphics are just
good enough to be forgivable once you
start playing, there's some nice
little touches, and the action is
really hectic and warlike- just
total chaos.  I love the fact that
one or two shots can kill you DEAD,
one of the things that really got
me into the original Marines Doom
so much...  And NAM is a lot of fun
when you play coop and actually get
people to cooperate, you can get
some nice results.  Very cool.  But
most of all, the thing that I think
adds the most to the game besides
the general gameplay flow is the
sound.  The SOUND in NAM just ROCKS.
They did an AWESOME job with creating
a war ambience, all the sounds (with
the exception of the player's voice)
really is extremely well-done, well
placed, and adds so much to the
illusion of war.  Josh W. sits next
to me and has a subwoofer and hearing
those bombs go off in the distance
makes me feel like I'm in Saving
Private Ryan (sound-wise).  It
just kicks ass to have everyone 
running around trying to ID each
other, trying to coordinate and
yelling over the sounds of gunfire,
mines, and air strikes.  The sound
work in it is rivalled only by one
other game- one we made a demo for
but (sadly) never got the go-ahead
to make.

In short, NAM rocks.  There are
certain graphic and engine limitations
when you use the build engine, so I
can forgive the pixelly graphics and
up/down perspective shearing.  In
all other aspects of the game- design
and sound, though, this game really
shines.  It's an almost perfect
example of a game that doesn't have
to look pretty to be FUN!!!

So BUY NAM!  I'm afraid a lot of
people won't because the box doesn't
say it uses the DUKE 3D engine and
the graphics look DOOM-era, but trust
me, this game is ten times more fun
than DOOM and Duke Multiplayer.

(TOMORROW:  MY suggestions for the
Add-On to NAM that GT MUST MAKE!!!)

BUY NAM!!!


BUY NAM!!!


BUY NAM!!!





What are you still doing here? BUY NAM!!!