Name: Mike Gummelt
Email: mgummelt@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Star Trek
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I've heard a lot of different ideas too, the anthology series, the Starfleet 
Academy series, the Section 31 series, the Klingon series, the pre-TOS 
series, the movie-era series, the Enterprise B/C series, the Excelsior 
series, etc. These all sound intriguing, but they all sound like spin-offs to 
me, not Star Trek.

But what I think Star Trek really needs is a return to the original ideals 
that made it great:

Exploration, the thrill of the unknown, a core of great characters surrounded 
by interesting supporting characters, and social issues. Of course you want 
some sex appeal and action, but Star Trek isn't missing that lately. So 
here's my pitch:

First, set it 100 years in the future. That way we don't have to worry about 
fitting into the very complex framework that has been evolved over the past 
12 years of TNG-era shows. This will release the show from contraints that 
might be imposed by trying to fit it into the current timeline and political 
setting. It would also create a new sense of excitement in the audience- they 
would not know what the 25th century is like in the Star Trek universe, 
they'd be excited to find out, just like they were when TNG first came out. 
But you could still tie plots back into the TNG era just as TNG has kept some 
continuity from the TOS era. Not so much to cause contraints, but enought to 
give the fans a thrill every now and then.

Okay, now that it's in the future, we need something to explore. Let's make 
it a biggie. Let's have the series be about the first starship to explore the 
Andromeda Galaxy- the first starship to explore a galaxy other than our own 
(to be realistic, it could be one of the Magellenic Clouds instead, but 
"cloud" doesn't sound as impressive as "galaxy"). This would allow for a 
totally new palette and truly strange and unknown species. They could do a 
little more with their aliens, get some more sci-fi in there. The aliens 
don't have to be humanoid and be able to walk around the ship and breathe our 
air, they could be anything the show's designers could think up if it's just 
on the viewscreen. They did this a couple times in TNG to very good effect. 
There could, of course, be some humanoids, some familiar and some not in the 
Andromeda Galaxy (remember the Kelvans?), but this would allow them to 
finally break away from the TOS-era inspired anthropomorphology that was 
neccessary due to the low budget and high effects costs that wouldn't exist 
now.

Now the ship and crew. It should be the Enterprise. For no other reason than 
to maintain the pedigree. There should have not been an Enterprise in a long 
time and they just name this new, experimental ship the Enterprise, no A, B, 
C or any damn letters (to echo Scotty's remark). Starfleet, of course, would 
do it as an homage to the most famous ship in their history, as a public 
relations feat and for symbolism. For the audience, it would bring nostalgia, 
respect for the crew that is worthy enough to man the Enterprise, and it 
would have name recognition.

The cast should have a core of a few excellent characters with good 
chemistry- that balance each other. The Kirk-Spock-Bones "trinity" was an 
excellent example. Spock represented the cold, logical side of thought, Bones 
was the bleeding-heart humanitarian, Kirk was the realist who took both sides 
and had to make the hard decisions. It was a perfect dynamic. The other 
characters should be as multi-special (as in species) as the TOS was 
multi-racial. The supporting characters should be distinct, interesting and 
colorful. But they should remain supporting characters. Ensemble shows are 
nice, but Star Trek does better when there are a core of standouts that you 
really care about and are guaranteed to see every week. I have more ideas 
about specific character types, but I'm not going to get into that.

I think this combination of elements would not only make a better show, but 
would also draw more people back to Trek who have drifted off. I think it 
could recapture the audience it's started to lose.

To this end, about 10 months ago or so, I actually came up with a 50 page 
series bible for this concept and wrote a pilot as well as a couple 
subsequent episodes and several plot synopses. I called the series either 
"Star Trek: The Final Frontier" or "Star Trek: Strange New Worlds". I think 
the concept works pretty well, but I don't know if there is any way I could 
ever get Paramount to look at it. It's all written up and ready to be 
pitched- I have an agent who might be interested in sending the idea to 
Paramount for me, but it's probably a longshot unless I can get Paramount's 
attention some other way first. Anyway, that's my philosophy about what makes 
Trek good- I've tried to apply as much of this feel for Trek as I can to what 
've contributed to Elite Force's plot, dialogue and characters. I could be 
wrong about this, maybe it's a horrible idea, but I like it.