
Name: Mike Gummelt
Email: mgummelt@ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Jedi Knight2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mini-review

Max Payne is a lot of fun.  Kind of repetitive and light on content and engine features, maybe a little short (though short doesn't matter to me at all), but it's a lot of fun.  The game is missing a lot of little things and feels a bit unfinished, but what is in there is pretty enjoyable.  That one new game element (the slow-mo dives) adds a whole lot and, for me, pretty much makes up for the other things it's lacking (no non-enemy NPCs, no mouth animation, no character animation for dialogue, somewhat low poly architecture and characters (no modeled ears?), AI seems 100% scripted and iffy-looking (seem to have trouble navigating sometimes and shoot each other in the back, all the enemies are essentially the same, just a few different weapons, different models/skins), the texture detail on the world isn't as amazing as I expected it to be on my GeForce3... then there's little things like the fact that you can't jump straight up and shoot... you can't crouch-walk or slow-mo dive under (or over) things... can't destroy a lot of things that you'd expect to be able to destroy, levels are almost 100% linear (again, not something that bothers me), no water of any kind, no curves, no multiplayer of any kind (and no promise of a multiplayer upgrade yet) weird clipping issues when you dive (you'd think since you have to do that all the time they'd have tried to fix that), grenade physics seem a little odd... Just seems oddly lacking in features/content for 4 years of development (though I have to give them a lot of credit for making their own engine).  But You know what, none of this really matters to me.  It may not be the longest, prettiest, most fully-featured, deepest game I've ever played, but it's a hell of a lot of fun and that's really all that matters to me.  I played it all the way through to the end and that's not something I do often at all.

Standard Disclaimer:  This is MY opinion, not Raven's, not Activision's, not Jeff Dischler's, not anyone else's for all I know...