You've reached Mike Wardwell @ Ritual Entertainment, Inc.

 Brian Hook Wrote:

 >The NY Jets sucked last year. That didn't mean that the NFL should kick them
 >out of the league. You keep people on that contribute to the sport and you
 >LET THEM COMPETE. Part of the beauty of competition is that you can strive
 >to become BETTER. Look at the Tampa Bay Buccanneers, NU, and other famous
 >underdogs-that-become-contenders. Even the best can be knocked down -- Tyson
 >lost, Michael Jordan has lost games and has also been flat outplayed. Hell,
 >I could ALMOST imagine someone one day fragging Thresh. :-)
 
 Anyone that shows up for a CPL event can compete at the same level as the 
 Cyberathletes.  Anyone that passes the qualifier round of any CPL event gets 
 ranked for that season.  "Cyberathletes" are not the extent of the CPL, they are
 only our star players.  We name our best players Cyberathletes to reward those that
 stand out, and to promote the best players in our league.  Just because Stevie isn't
 a Cyberathlete doesn't mean she is no longer involved in the CPL.  It just means that
 she isn't one of our star players.

 >Point being that just because someone isn't the best within a sport doesn't
 >mean they should leave that sport. PGL is interesting for this reason --
 >anyone can try and compete. It's not an "invite only" thing where a handful
 >of competitors play against each other constantly (*yawn*).

 At cyberathlete.com under "concept" it reads as follows:

        The CPL will consist of about five major events per yearly season, which any
        game player may freely attend, playing for cash prizes and the championship. 
        At the end of each season, player performances will be measured using the
        Cyberathletic Ranking System. These four events will be entirely LAN-oriented,
        given the unjust nature of the Internet. While the Internet has played a great
        role in generating the rivalries and friendships that exist in the gaming
        community, why strive to achieve the even playing field of competitive gaming,
        just to tilt the Earth again? The Cyberathlete Organization, however, is open to
        the possibility of external qualification and online exhibition that does not
        directly relate to the major event outcomes. 

        Any player that qualifies for the one-on-one phases of each event, will be
        ranked on the CPL web page. At the end of the season, the highest ranked
        competitor will be named the CPL champion for that season. The key is that
        anyone is eligible to win these events, sponsored or otherwise. 

        The Cyberathlete Organization oversees the designation of Cyberathletic status
        to certain individuals, helping the CPL members find individual sponsors. Once
        a player has become sponsored, they will become a Cyberathlete. Until this
        happens, worthy players may become sponsored by the Cyberathletic
        Organization itself until an appropriate sponsor can be found. The idea is to
        have companies enter a mutually beneficial agreement with the new
        Cyberathletes who will represent them in the CPL events in exchange for
        funding and transportation arrangements. 

        The Cyberathletic Rankings System will be used across the five major events
        to determine a seasonal champion. The system is a tappered points allocation
        setup based on place finish in each event. The player who has accumulated
        the most points at the end of the year, will be crowned the CPL champion. 

        Throughout all of its mechanisms, the Cyberathlete Organization's primary goal
        is the advancement of professional computer gaming. Within this sport lies a
        virtue of equality not approached by modern sports, and yet, a fierce
        competition among those who compete. The winning distinction falls not
        between those who can, and those who cannot, but between those who will
        and those who will not. 

 


Mike Wardwell
giggler@ritual.com
mike@cyberathlete.com

