Account Name:  Bryan Turner
Email address: bryant@3drealms.com
----------
10/06/98 11:15 am

Standard Disclaimer: What you read in this might not be what we would 
do if you Called Tech Support, This is MY findings, and the opinions
here are mine and not the Tech Department's, Everything in this Plan
is examples...  Blah Blah Blah.........

Hummm...  I just received a Call today and I thought that I would share
it with everyone.

The customer called and was upset because he did not have enough memory
to run Monster Bash and a few of our other games. Although he had 64
meg's of Ram in his system.

First computers come with 640k Conventional Memory. And that is what
these games are looking for. Not RAM.

So when he restarted into MSDOS mode by selecting Start - Shutdown -
Restart in MSDOS mode, and he typed in MEM <enter> he only had 510k
free. This is normal, because if you have windows you normally will not
use dos. (Unless you want to play dos games)

So this is the Fix, but first some definitions:

Right Click - Moving your Mouse over something and Pressing the Right
              mouse button.
Desktop     - The area on your windows 95 that has no ICONS, but it is
              the part that you look at all the time. :)
Icon        - The thing's that you click to start a Program.

Start up your computer and get to your Desktop. Right Click on your
Desktop where there is not any ICONS. This will bring up a Dialog box
with different options.

Select NEW - Shortcut. A box (window) will appear asking you the Command
line. You want to type in "COMMAND" and press OK. Then it will ask you
the name for this ICON. (It will have MS-DOS Prompt) you can name it
anything your heart desires.

Now you will see the ICON on your Desktop. Right Click it and go down to
Properties.

Ok now is where the fun begins. :) left Click on the Program Tab. then 
left click on ADVANCED. In the Advanced Program Settings Window, left 
Click on the little white box next to "MS-DOS Mode"

Then Click on the White Circle that is next to "Specify a new MS-DOS 
Configuration"

The 2 boxes that were gray will now become White. In the Config.sys 
box you should only have 2 lines:

DOS=HIGH,UMB
Device=C:WINDOWSHimem.Sys

and in the Autoexec.bat you will have a lot. :) We do not need them all
so use your delete Key and delete all the lines.

Now we need to Init your Sound Card. (Actually just the Set 
Blaster Command, Since I have gone over how to get that in another
Plan file I will not go over that again in Detail. {Type in SET
<enter> from a dos prompt and write down the BLASTER= line})

The Format is SET BLASTER=A### I# D# T# (You will need to put in 
your setting's) 

Then click on OK, when the window Closes click on Apply and then OK.

Now you have an MS DOS Shortcut that will restart your Computer into 
MS-DOS mode and give you a lot of Memory.

If you need to add any driver's into the configuration (Sound Mouse ect.)
right click on the Icon and go down to Properties, then Program then 
Advanced, Just like we did to create this, and if you are adding it into
the CONFIG.SYS window and the line is something like DEVICE=c:ANSI.sys
change it to DEVICEHIGH=c:ANSI.sys  this will load it HIGH (leaving you 
with more conventional Memory) And for the Autoexec.bat if you wanted 
to add in something (IE: C:MOUSE.COM ) Add it in with the load high 
command as well:

LH c:mouse.com

Now you should be ready to play! Have fun.

Games that I am playing: 
Single : NONE!
Multi  : NONE!
(I am having a Bad week)

Personal Stuff:
The POND: I got everything that I needed to finish it and low and behold 
my Wife (Marla) had a nightmare about our 2 yr old (Brianna) drowning 
in it. Although I attempted to explain that I would building a "cute"
fence around it, the pond is no more, and I will be filling my Hole that
I have been working on for the last 2 months. :(

The Beast: I found out that La Barens Have COOL hood Hinges (Like SAAB's)
and I will be looking into getting my hands on them and having the Beast's
hood open Outward's. I have already found some Jeep parts that I will be
using to make the tailgate open like a Door. (Now all I need is a
Tailgate) If you have a Spare Nissan Tailgate (87-96) Please let me know
and I will see if I can meet your Price and pay for Shipping (Depending
on what the Price is. :) )
