Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------








THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S SCREECHING FINGER

Now in new and improved HTML flavor!

DISCLAIMER:

This is a personal rant page. Don't be surprised if nothing appears here regarding the
video gaming industry. All of my rants are pure speculation based on tidbits of 
information gleaned from various sources (like the Tonight Show or bathroom readers.) 
These are by no means informed, intelligent discussions of current issues. If you take 
anything I record here seriously, then you are committing criminal negligence. If something 
here sparks your interest, please go to the library, learn about it, and form your own 
opinion.

A MONKEY'S THOUGHTS ON SEX AND VIOLENCE (2/14/98)

A great many things are "right" with this country (i.e. the U.S.) so I suppose it stands
to reason that the "wrong" things stand out all the more. For instance, the misconception 
that cartoons and video games are strictly for children has long grated on my nerves. 
Fortunately, cartoons and video games are slowly finding their way into the mainstream, 
and I foresee this misconception soon going the way of the dodo.

While working on Shadow Warrior, another age-old problem was made painfully apparent to
me. Shadow Warrior actually comes in four flavors: Shareware, Registered, U.K., and
Parental Locked. This last version is permanently locked into "kid mode" (i.e. all gore,
nudity, and swearing cut out.) This version was specifically created for sale at a certain
chain of department stores, because they are big and powerful and wouldn't sell the game
unless we did things their way. The interesting thing, though, is that we didn't actually
need to cut out the gore in order to meet their requirements, only the language and nudity.
The moral mafia is at work for you, fellow Americans!

So, according to the moral mafia, shouting profanity at somebody or (gasp!) viewing an
unclothed human body is morally reprehensible, but it's okay to pull out a machine gun and
rip them into hamburger. Well, excuse me for being a black sheep, but I disagree! I would 
much rather stand naked before the entire human race and have them cuss at me than have a 
single person shoot me. 

As far as profanity is concerned, I think I can see the moral mafia's perspective. The
vocabulary itself is little more than vulgar, and is in fact harmless. Our language can
deliver far more powerful speech using better vocabulary. I think the moral mafia's fear 
of profanity derives from the fact that base words are most commonly spoken by base people, 
and often accompanied by physical violence, or at least violent intent.

I find the moral mafia's fear of nudity a little more confusing. I had a friend who once
told me "If God had intended for us to run around naked, we would've been born that
way." Is this such an unreasonable assumption? Clothing fulfills a practical need, but if
on occasion some people choose to ignore those needs, who are we to stop them? Why should
we care? What is the moral mafia trying to protect us from-- stretch marks?

None of this makes sense until you bring children into the equation. Maybe I was wrong
in the paragraph above, and most people still see cartoons and video games as the pasttime 
of children. In that case, children might be getting the "wrong idea" by seeing nudity in 
video games. Why, they might start running around naked themselves, thinking it's the 
normal thing to do! So let's hide the nudity and promote violence instead! They may go on
a killing spree, but at least they'll be clothed when they do it!

A MONKEY'S THOUGHTS ON VIDEO GAME CONTENT (2/7/98)

"I don't know art, but I know what I like" is a pretty good way to sum up how art should be
viewed. "What I like" is the most important aspect of art. Be it painting, music, 
photography, or whatever, when you are experiencing a piece of "fine" art, what the artist 
was trying to express isn't nearly so important as whether or not you, the "consumer", like 
looking at it (or hearing it, or whatever.) Trying to derive additional "meaning" from a 
piece of art is something you do only if you want to. At its very core, fine art is, and 
always will be, a form of entertainment. If you don't like a piece of art, then, as far as
you're concerned, that piece of art is irrelevant, be it the Mona Lisa or the "Meow Mix"
logo.

Enter modern media: movies, television shows, and video games. These are immediately 
apparent as entertainment, but they too are a form of fine art. As such, additional layers 
of depth can be found when experiencing these media, just as with traditional fine art. 
Video games, being an interactive medium, can convey an especially deep experience. Done 
right, a game could teach you, or make you feel joy or suffering, it could help you become 
a better person through deeper empathy with the world around you, just as with traditional 
fine art. As we enter the next millenium, video games could become a vessel for the 
artists' pain, elation, beliefs, and anger, as important in scope as any of the great 
masterpieces throughout history.

I, for one, don't give a goat fart if this ever happens. If this new epoch of video gaming
occurs, I won't care because I play video games to have fun and nothing else. When watching
television, I can't stand to have the show try and teach me something. "It's good to
share." Well, I don't care. "Lying is wrong." I still don't care. "Don't waste your money
on get-rich-quick schemes involving hamsters and egg salad sandwiches." I don't care, go
away, and leave me alone! I am personally offended when fictitious characters have the
gall to tell me how they think I should live my life!

"I don't know art, but I know what I like." I like beautifully rendered landscapes. I like
epic, Tolkien-esque tales of fantastic worlds. I like non-stop action. I like brain
bruising puzzles. I like scantily clad beautiful women. I like humor. I like excessive
violence. I like meeting or developing characters that I care about. Most of all, I like 
doing things I've never done before. If ever games evolve into something higher: some kind
of in-depth expression of the artists' deepest feelings and beliefs; something with real 
impact on the world around us-- well, I just hope there's a "Socially Conscious" toggle I 
can switch OFF before I play.

LIFE WITH MONKEYS (2/7/98)

Working in the 3D Realms office is never boring, with so many entertaining people here.

"Working here is like working in Satan's crotch." - Ruben, when Paul asked him how he liked
working in the mappers' office.

"You'll never find me! I'm like a mole without a head!" - Ruben, during a deathmatch.

"And as we all know, superior is better." - Me, in regards to some technical improvement.

If you read my bio page, you know that I drive a 1972 Ford Maverick, which still runs fine
and looks pretty good. I was searching the web for Maverick information the other day and
came up with some interesting material. This is a quote from the actual Maverick FAQ, 
created by Ford circa 1968:

"Q: Are you putting us on about the colors like Original Cinnamon?
A: No. Everything's bolder, brighter these days. Maverick has the colors to
go with the times-- and the names to go with the colors. Like Hulla Blue,
Anti-Establish Mint, Freudian Gilt, Thanks Vermillion, and Original
Cinnamon."

Groan! How little I knew that Ford made the Maverick with me in mind. None
of these colors sound like the red of my car, although my wife is fond of
calling it "Tomato Orange."

Another interesting quote is this one:

"It makes a better driver out of every wife and teen-ager because of the
nimble way it handles in traffic."

Or how about this:

"Q: What kind of power does Maverick have?
A: Maverick's Six lets loose 105 galloping horses. That's 52 more than you
get in the 4-cylinder VW 1500..."

105? Wow! Note how they flatteringly compare the Maverick to a Volkswagon.
For reference, my 1995 Toyota Corolla "lets loose" 125 "galloping horses."

Another point of interest is that Mavericks came with a 9-year
bumper-to-bumper warranty. My Maverick was under warranty until 1981.
Weird, eh?



