Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------








THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S SCREECHING FINGER

DISCLAIMER:

This is a personal rant page. Don't be surprised if nothing appears here regarding the
video gaming industry. All of my rants are pure speculation based on tidbits of 
information gleaned from various sources (like the Tonight Show or bathroom readers.) 
These are by no means informed, intelligent discussions of current issues. If you take 
anything I record here seriously, then you are committing criminal negligence. If something 
here sparks your interest, please go to the library, learn about it, and form your own 
opinion.

SOME THOUGHTS ON EVOLUTION (3/23/98)

Recently I have been reading "Hope of Earth" by Piers Anthony, which is the third 
volume of his "Geodyssey" series. I highly recommend this series of books, as they are
entertaining and thought provoking. It is these provoked thoughts that I am writing down
here. The Geodyssey series tries to explain how we, as a species, developed the 
characteristics that enabled us to survive the harsh prehistoric wilds and evolve from 
primitive monkeys to advanced hairless monkeys that make Duke maps, becoming arguably the 
most dominant species on this planet. Then, the series examines how these same 
characteristics which made us so successful are now contributing to our downfall.

Because of severe overpopulation, this planet's resources are quickly dwindling, and 
somewhere in the near future, there will no longer be enough food to go around. At that
point, Mother Nature will reassert herself and reduce the human population back down to a
manageable number. I hope to be around when this happens, because it sounds pretty 
exciting. I for one have greatly enjoyed these 25 years living in comfortable modern
human society, but a changeover to primitive anarchy would be a refreshing change of pace,
to say the least.

The most important item contributing to our success as a species is our large,
intelligent brain. We are the way we are mostly because our bodies and behaviors have 
evolved to support and develop this brain. Lately, however, an interesting trend has
developed. In a nutshell, the smartest people have stopped contributing to the gene pool. 
Here's how it works: in today's society, if you want to have a reasonably comfortable life,
you need to work your butt off for a long time. You need to devote almost all your time to
your career. An intelligent person knows that to best provide for their childrens'
well being, they need to spend a goodly amount of time with them and have enough funds to
provide for them. This being the case, raising children generally comes into direct conflict 
with a career. As a result, most people have fewer children, and these children are born
relatively late in their parents' lives. There are of course always exceptions, but odds 
are that if you are reading this, your I.Q. is in the top 20% of the population, and you 
probably have no more than two children. On the flip side, there are a lot of people out 
there with average intelligence or less, who are just barely scraping by or are living on 
welfare, yet have huge families with five or more children. The obvious result is that the
human race is, on average, growing more stupid. Just look around at some of the things 
kids are doing these days, and I think you'll see my hypothesis confirmed.

Of course, genetics are not entirely at fault. Society has repressed intelligence since
the dawn of man. Change is feared, new and different ideas are hidden or denounced as
heresy. What happened to Galileo is only one example of an entire sad history of the 
establishment crushing the independent thinker. I cannot guess why people behave this way; 
perhaps it's just instinct.

So intelligence is being bred out of the species. Nature works in mysterious ways, 
usually involving the "good idea at the time" principle. Is it possible that nature has 
realized that intelligence is a detriment, and is even now working to rectify the problem? 
Perhaps over the next few generations, humans as individuals will become stupid enough that 
they will no longer be a threat to the species as a whole, and our survival will be 
assured. The odd intelligent person that is born will be squashed as in the past. 

That'll be something for my child to keep in mind, if ever I decide to have one.

SPORTS DRINK RANT (3/4/98)

Any trademarks in the following paragraph are the properties of their respective owners.

Remember the "gool ol' days" when Gatorade(tm) was the only sports drink? It came in two
flavors: "Orange(tm)" and "Green(tm)." This past weekend I caught a cold and decided I
would drink Gatorade(tm) to replace "lost bodily nutrients(tm)." Now, it seems, there is
quite a selection of sports drink flavors, far more than a person with a head cold should
have to deal with. Now there's All-Sport(tm) and Powerade(tm), as well as the traditional
Gatorade(tm). Each of these brands comes with a lot of different flavors, all of which
seem to be named after weather patterns. A bottle might contain a mysterious bluish liquid,
and be called "Glacial Gargle(tm)." Since "Tidal Wave Smash(tm)," "Hurricane Hurrah(tm),"
and "Sleet Suckle(tm)" gave me no indication of what flavor might be contained therein, I
had to go with whatever color appealed to me most. (I figured that these names might be
exercising a little license, since a tidal wave probably -actually- tastes like brine, 
seaweed, and dead fish, and I know that most Japanese cuisine isn't very popular in the 
United States.) Anyway, I decided on a promising greenish bottle with the flavor: (I'm not 
kidding) "Green Squall(tm)" When I later opened and drank this culinary delight, I was 
pleased by a tasty and not entirely unrecognizable flavor. It was at this point it dawned 
on me to read the ingredient list (remember I was sick and thinking slowly.) It had 
three ingredients that didn't sound like waste products from a biochemical weapons factory: 
"Citric Acid," "Natural Kiwi Flavor," and "Coconut Oil." If this "Green Squall(tm)" is any 
indication, then  other drinks with names like "Turquoise Tornado(tm)" probably have 
similarly mundane fruit flavors hiding inside. I suppose I can understand the beverage 
companies' viewpoint: "Strawberry(tm)" is a very boring and mundane name compared to
"Freezin' Flash Flood(tm)" but isn't there a happy medium somewhere? Take our Kiwi flavored
"Green Squall(tm)" for instance. Though "Kiwi(tm)" might be a blase appellation, they could
certainly have gotten away with "Kiwi Kicker(tm)," "Killer Kiwi(tm)", or "Chug-a-luggin'
Kiwi Squirt Juice(tm)." Even names like "Tropical One-Two Punch(tm)," "Bathtub Fruity 
Mash(tm)," and "Juicy Pulp Splash(tm)," though they do not mention Kiwis, at least imply
that a fruit flavor might be hidden somewhere within. I only hope that this trend doesn't
escape out into the world of common food items, or we'll soon be pouring "Buffalo 
Stampede Sunburn(tm)" onto our "Elsie's Dark Secret(tm)" with a side of "Fiery Salt Flats
Stakes(tm)"

Quote of the week:
"I got better things to do with my time than search the net for glimmery-eyed pictures
of Jackalopes." - George