Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------








THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S SCREECHING FINGER

DISCLAIMER:

Don't be surprised if nothing appears here regarding the
video gaming industry. All of my rants are pure speculation based on tidbits of 
information gleaned from various sources (like the Tonight Show or bathroom readers.) 
These are by no means informed, intelligent discussions of current issues. If you take 
anything I record here seriously, then you are committing criminal negligence. If something 
here sparks your interest, please go to the library, learn about it, and form your own 
opinion.

"Hey Terence, while we're waiting for the Renderrax, let's hunt for treasure!" -
overheard in the 3D Realms offices while waiting for the Renderrax to reboot... again.

A MONKEY'S THOUGHTS ON CENSORSHIP (4/10/98)

Recently I acquired a comic book, which on the inside back cover told me the sickening
story of what happened to Planet Comics of Oklahoma City in 1995, and made me aware of the
existence of the Comic Book Legal Defense Fund (CBLDF for short.) The CBLDF, among other
things, collects donations to bail out comic book artists who have been convicted of 
breaking censorship laws. You can visit their web site at http://www.cbldf.org/justin.html.

One story of note is about an artist named Mike Diana, who was convicted in 1995 for 
violating Florida's obscenity laws. He was required to pay a $3,000 fine, undergo 
psychological testing, to have no contact with children under 18 years of age, to perform 
1,248 hours of community service, enroll in a journalistic ethics course, and to live under 
three years of probation, during which his residence could be inspected at any time, without 
warning or warrant, to determine if he was in possession of, or was creating, "obscene 
material." The crime? His magazine, "Boiled Angel," depicted real life situations like date 
rape and child molesting. Mr. Diana is the first American convicted of obscenity, and his 
appeal to the Supreme Court was turned down.

Frankly, Mr. Diana's situation frightens me. Here I am, working for 3D Realms, the 
people who brought you Duke Nukem and Lo Wang, both starring in their own bloody, violent 
games. These games could be considered obscene according to some peoples' value systems. 
Could I be convicted of breaking obscenity laws and possibly sent to jail merely because
events in my life led to me designing levels for Duke Nukem Forever? I'm hoping some 
intelligent judge realizes just how unconstitutional censorship laws are before that
happens.

Tread lightly, friends. Big Brother -is- watching you. And I don't think he likes
what he sees.


