Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------








THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S SCREECHING FINGER

DISCLAIMER:

Don't be surprised if nothing appears here regarding the
video gaming industry. All of my rants are pure speculation based on tidbits of 
information gleaned from various sources (like the Tonight Show or bathroom readers.) 
These are by no means informed, intelligent discussions of current issues. If you take 
anything I record here seriously, then you are committing criminal negligence. If something 
here sparks your interest, please go to the library, learn about it, and form your own 
opinion.

A MONKEY KNOWS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BOYS AND GIRLS (5/19/98)

A couple of months ago, Next Generation magazine ran a feature about
"Women in Video Games." Unfortunately, I have lost my copy of that issue,
and I am unable to quote passages from this article in proper journalistic
fashion. (Which is okay, because I don't have their permission anyway.)
Instead, I will be forced to paraphrase what I can dimly recall about this
feature. In a nutshell, NG was reporting on the tired, age-old problem
concerning the exploitation of women, and how such exploitation is currently
in practice in the video game industry. They talked about how games are more
and more frequently being advertised with a "sex-sells" mindset, with ads
involving provocative women wearing very little and trying to push a game
that they may or may not actually have anything to do with. Of the ads they
cited, my particular favorite was one that was banned in Europe. It consisted
of a full-page picture of a woman tied to a bed and looking longingly at the
reader. At the bottom I believe the caption read "Utterly distracting" and
pictured the product itself, a Nintendo Game Boy. NG went on to report in
their article how the game developers are behaving no better than the ad
execs, with unrealistically proportioned women showing up in the games with
no apparent purpose other than to excite sex-starved male geeks. Tomb Raider
and Duke Nukem 3D were both considered guilty of this, I believe.

My take on this situation is similar to my take on the "violence in video
games" situation. Video games contain violence because violence sells and
developers are in this business to make money. Well, video games that exploit
women are probably intended to be sold to men, and men enjoy seeing women
exploited. Now, I realize that last line raised the hackles of a large
percentage of you guys out there reading this. Okay, not -all- men enjoy
seeing women exploited, but if you've ever enjoyed looking at an attractive
woman merely for the sake of looking, under any circumstances, then you, my
friend, are a guilty party. 

But is this a problem? Men are programed to look, it's what we do. The
most innocent man will glance at a woman's chest when he meets her, even if
he has absolutely no sexual intent regarding her. He can't help himself, it's
a reflex. A woman's body is a veritable masterpiece of perfect composition
and curvature, and, like any work of art, it was meant to be admired. Given
man's unrelenting sex drive, it's only natural that he go through life
admiring every female "work of art" he casts his eyes on. So, if you're an
advertising firm trying to sell something to a man, what's the easiest way to
get him to look at your ad? Put a woman there and he'll look every time. Want
proof? The issue of Next Generation that ran the "Women in Video Games"
feature was printed with two different covers. One cover depicted a sexy
video game girl, and was sold at newsstands everywhere. The other cover
depicted John Carmack, and this cover was mailed to subscribers and sold
exclusively at Electronics Boutique. Well, EB reported unusually low sales
of Next Generation that month.

So putting women in video games and ads sells games. But what about the way
in which these women are depicted? They invariably possess large breasts, tiny
waists, and flawless legs. Why show them like this, when it's physically
impossible for any real women to actually look like that? I think this is
primarily because of the limited way in which we interact with them.
They are there to be looked at, and that's -all- we can do. Sure, you might
be able to move them around on the screen or something, but all you're
-really- doing is pressing keys on the keyboard while looking at an image.
You can't touch them, smell them, talk to them, or buy them coffee. These
aren't real people with thoughts, dreams, and fears, these are images to
be looked at and nothing else. So the artists do what they've done since they
were drawing on cave walls, they exaggerate. Exaggeration makes the
composition look more interesting and highlights the important features in
the art. The thinking here is, "We want everyone to know she has big breasts,
so let's draw her with -really- big breasts."

This brings us to the other half of the population, the women. What do
they think of this entire situation? It's been going on since the dawn of man,
so you'd think they'd be used to it by now. But the women polled in that NG
article claimed they were offended by the way women appear in the video game
industry. (This article was typically one-sided.) They seemed to think that
because these fantasy women are portrayed in such a way, men expect real
women to conform to this standard. I think they're wrong. What I expect from
women of fantasy is indeed very different than what I expect from women of
flesh and blood. Any man who thinks differently is setting himself up for
a lifetime of disappointment. All I can think to say to these ladies is
lighten up-- you're jealous of a drawing.

And so the video game industry will continue, as well as any other visual
media, chugging along the way they always have. The "sex-sells" mindset will
continue until something better comes along, which may never happen. In
my opinion, there isn't any real problem. But then again, what do I know? I'm
just some guy, enjoying life in a male-dominated society.