Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------







THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S FINGER

Keith Schuler

Level Designer / 3D Realms





DISCLAIMER:

There is no disclaimer because I'm tired of reading it. I make no apologies for what I
write here.

And now for some Animaniacs-style advice from my wife:

GOOD IDEA: Meet your husband at the airport after E3 wearing sexy clothing. BAD IDEA: 
Meet your husband at the airport wearing a corset with about a billion hook-and-eyes under
the sexy clothing. DFW security may strip-search you for your trouble.

And from me:

GOOD IDEA: At a fancy GT party, place disposable cameras on every table so that the 
guests can take home souvenir photos of the event. BAD IDEA: Place squirt guns on
the tables, then invite several less-than-mature video game developers and provide them
with a fully stocked bar. I think my hair still smells like beer.

A MONKEY'S-EYE VIEW OF E3 (6/1/98)

Last year was my first year at E3, and whenever I wasn't manning the Shadow Warrior 
display, I was wandering around with my mouth hanging open, in awe of the entire spectacle.
Well, this year I was really looking forward to going again, but this time I wasn't so awestruck-- 
the major booths were more or less the same, so there were no huge surprises. George was in 
charge of the back room demo of Duke (my hat goes off to you George, I don't envy you -that- 
job) so I didn't have to "man" anything, and nobody knows or cares who I am (just the way I 
like it; fame breeds overconfidence), so there was no reason to hang around the GT booth. 
There are other people on the Duke team who like to worry about things more than I do, so I 
let them deal with the business of scouting the competition. So I was left with doing two 
things: scouting the games I was looking forward to playing, and seeing how many booth 
babes I could get my picture taken with. 

I love playing games, but some of the best PC games are "work" to me (whether I'm making
them or picking them apart with a critical eye,) so I never get to play through them with 
the awe and thrill of discovery that make video games so much fun. It's more fun to 
-create- an awesome game anyway, but for recreational purposes I usually rely on other 
genres and platforms. This year I was most looking forward to Zelda 64, which was the reason
I bought my N64 to begin with, and it doesn't look too disappointing despite being 
distributed on a cartridge instead of the originally planned DD64. Even less disappointing
was Metal Gear Solid, which I spent quite some time playing. I wouldn't mind making a game
like this someday, where success depends on stealthy spy tactics instead of brute force. 
Least disappointing of all, though, was Time Crisis 2. It's a real shame that gun games tend
to be successful only in arcades, where every machine can be made to have a gun peripheral.
I think that Duke would lend himself really well to this type of game. Perhaps someday we'll 
see him starring in a game like this in the arcade.

One of the great things about E3 is that almost every woman there is beautiful. From the
Nintendo babes who would sit down and play sports games with you, to the PR representatives 
handing out freebies (uh, demo CDs and such,) to the photo op women, E3 is just one great 
big flesh feast. I withstood the mob to get my picture taken with Lara Croft, but I didn't 
even try to survive Gillian Anderson's "infinite line of doom." I'm pretty sure the line to
meet her stretched all the way back here to Dallas. And I won't even go into our "after 
hours" activities, which were best described by Nick in a rare moment of sobriety: "3D 
Realms is the most awesome company to work for in the world."

E3 isn't just about video games, though. One of the great joys of my childhood (2 or 3 
years ago), was my Erector set. This was neither the "farm machinery and trucks" Erector of 
the ancient Greeks, nor was it the "farm machinery and trucks renaissance" Erector of today. 
Nay, this was the "tanks, spaceships, and cool stuff" Erector of the early eighties. I also 
loved Tinker Toys, Lego, and any other kind of building sets. One of my friends had my 
favorite of these sets, called Robotics. You built things with Robotics using interlocking 
hexagon shaped sockets, which was a less stable method than Erector, but also less blocky 
than Lego. The best thing about Robotics, though, was that you had several motors and 
counterweights controlled from a remote pad. My friend and I spent many an hour building 
remote controlled robots, then pitting them against one another, seeing who could build a 
robot that could most effectively knock his opponent apart while staying mostly in one 
piece. Is it any surprise that I now build game levels for a living? Anyway, what I'm 
getting at here it that I thought the new Lego Mindstorm toys shown at E3 looked really, 
really, cool. The Mindstorm sets are completely compatible with existing Lego sets, but 
include various sensors for detecting light levels, walls, sounds, and so forth, as well 
as a CPU for controlling your robot which can download programs created on your PC. I think 
that somewhere down the road, Nick and I are going to be pitting our Lego robots against 
one another, with his superior AI versus my superior structural design. Who can say who will 
prevail?
 
Well, that last paragraph seemed sort of "tacked on," so I guess I'd better wrap this up.
Congratulations to everybody who took part in E3, it was truly a spectacular event. I look
forward to next years' E3, where no doubt a newly released Duke Nukem Forever will take the
show by storm. Until then, I guess I'd better get back to work.



