Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------







THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S FINGER

Keith Schuler

Level Designer / 3D Realms





THE MONKEY BUYS A CAR (9/25/98)

For the past couple of years since I've moved to Dallas, I've been driving a 1972 Ford Maverick. The Maverick
was given to me as a gift from my parents when I moved away from my home in Florida to seek my fortune with my
girlfriend (now my wife) in Colorado. It has been the most reliable car a person could hope to own. For
about seven years, I've driven that car everywhere, and it never needed anything more than regular maintenance.

Since moving to the Dallas area, I've been seduced away from my faithful vehicle by a few factors. First, the
Maverick's air conditioner died about twenty years ago, and it gets really hot around here. Sometimes, while driving
around town, I would need to pull over and rest inside somewhere for awhile. Secondly, several of my peers in
the local game developer community drive really nice sports cars, and I am not immune to peer pressure. Thirdly,
I was ready for a change. Since we got married, my wife has owned and driven three different cars, while I kept
driving that Maverick. Finally, I wanted something to show for my work on Shadow Warrior.

So now I had to decide, which car did I want to get? Since working here, I've ridden in or driven a Mazda RX-7, 
an Acura NSX, and a Porche 911. All three cars were far too cramped for my 6'8" stature. I also test drove a new
Mustang GT, but while I could sit down in it, the car somehow managed to be both slow and squirrely at the same
time. (To soothe you Mustang fans out there, I realize that Mustangs have a pretty high top speed but I have no
intention of driving around city streets at 100+mph. I was looking for punch off the line.) Then I remembered: last 
year sometime, a black Toyota MkIV Supra went up for sale in the parking lot of our offices. Stephen Cole had 
mentioned to me that "those were fast cars." I already knew from experience that Toyota built a good car, so I
decided to test drive a Supra. This turned out to easier said than done, because Supra Turbos are actually kind of
rare, and Toyota dealers generally wouldn't let me drive them anyway. I finally managed to test drive a normally
aspirated Supra, and fell instantly in love. I fit in it pretty well, and being a Toyota, I immediately felt 
familiar with the car.

I had decided a Supra Turbo was the car for me, now all I had to do was find one I could afford. A nice fellow
at Toyota of Plano told me to try Lineback Enterprises
. This turned out to be a really good referral, and I highly recommend them to anybody looking for a specific used 
sports or luxury car. I told them I wanted a silver '94 or '96 Supra Turbo with low mileage and 6-speed transmission 
for around $25,000. In a couple weeks he had found in Arizona a car matching that description almost exactly. It was
a '94 Supra Turbo with 6-speed tranny and only 28,000 miles. The asking price was a little over my target, but it
had some extra features, including Greddy exhaust, custom wheels, a high preformance clutch, and a CD player.

I gave them the thumbs up, and "the process" started. I was a little nervous buying an out-of-state car sight
unseen, but Tom (at Lineback) assured me that I could always pull out at the last if I found the car to be
unsatisfactory. "The process" ended up taking about two months, primarily because of delays on the part of the 
seller. After that interminable wait, my Supra was finally waiting for me upon my return from Vegas. The only problem
I could find is that the trucking company apparently cracked the windshield in transit. That little problem will be
resolved forthwith. Other than that, I'm ecstatic driving my new car around town. I can't wait to take this baby
out to the track and see what she can do!

A MONKEY'S-EYE VIEW OF LAS VEGAS (9/18/98)

At noon, Sunday September 13 our "Vegas Strike Team" assembled outside the 3D Realms offices. The
strike team consisted of two artists (Brian Cozzens and Ruben Cabrera), three level designers (Stephen Cole,
Allen Blum, and myself), and one guy paying for the trip (George Broussard.) The artists were each armed 
with a digital camera, while the remaining members of the team each had a more conventional 35mm camera.
Our mission: to visit important points of interest in and around Las Vegas and take as many pictures as
possible so as to render the Las Vegas locales in Duke Nukem Forever as accurately and realistically 
as possible. The artists brought along a laptop computer to store the digital pictures at the end of
each day.

Our flight was safe and uneventful. I had brought along issues of PC Gamer and PC Games, so we played
some of the demo CDs on the laptop. We landed in the late afternoon, and took two taxis to The Mirage, which
would be our base of operations for this mission. We had to take two taxis -everywhere- in Vegas, because local
laws apparently prohibit more than five passengers in a single cab. Our team consisted of six members. Whenever 
we went somewhere, the two cabs would invariably take different routes, so it was sometimes fun to see which 
group "won" with a lower fare. After checking in and unpacking, we ate at the California Pizza Kitchen, then
went outside and watched the pirate show in front of Treasure Island. After that we gambled for a while. I played
$1 video poker and lost $100. This irked me somewhat, so I went to bed early in anticipation of our trip to 
Hoover Dam the next day.

We got up and out the door by 8am on Monday, which was truly an oddity for a group of guys who hadn't been up
before 10am in years. We caught a bus, driven by "Earl the psychotic bus driver." A quick note here: pedestrians 
follow no traffic laws in Vegas. They cross the street in droves whenever they feel like it, regardless of the 
traffic situation. Obviously, these people have never played Carmageddon. Anyway, "Angry Earl" didn't care. 
-Everything- had to get out of his way or die in the attempt, including pedestrians, valets, taxis, and brick walls.
After our experience with Earl, we changed to the actual tour bus, driven by "Hank the terminally cheerful tour
guide." Hank was only -too- happy to tell us everything he knew about Vegas, including a new hotel under 
construction which sank eighteen inches inside of a year.

Once at Hoover Dam, most of the strike team went on the basic tour, while George and Brian stayed "topside" and
got several exterior pictures. The tour guide didn't pay too much attention to me, so I often drifted away from the
group and wandered into places I shouldn't have to get pictures of interesting and cool stuff. Stephen served as a
sort of way point, always keeping both the group and myself in view so that I wouldn't be lost forever in the dam.
Near the end of the tour, Stephen and I caught up with Ruben and Allen, who were with a different group. Stephen 
stayed with the group while the rest of us went rogue and explored wherever we wanted to. When we were done, we 
waited next to the elevators for the next tour group to come along. The guide was openly hostile, claiming that
our motives were suspicious, and he threatened to call security on us. A stay in the slammer would've really made
this trip a success, but we behaved ourselves and got away unscathed. We all agreed that the tour was far too short
and that we needed to come back the next day for another go.

That evening, we ate a pleasant and expensive meal at the Chinese restaurant inside The Mirage, followed by more
gaming. At this point, a portion of the strike team (including myself) decided it was time to check out the Vegas 
club scene (research for the game, you know.) The first place we went was a failure of the highest order and not 
worthy of mention here (i.e. I forgot the name.) After narrowly escaping, we made our way to the Crazy Horse Too, 
which was one of the nicer places I've been. I returned the following two nights, finding it a pleasant alternative
to losing money by gambling.

Tuesday, we rented that red hummer across the street. Now our strike team could get around in style! We drove out
to the dam again, the stereo blasting "Rammstein" all the way. This was the 3D Realms version of the Land Shark from
"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas." When we arrived, George, Brian, and I took the hardhat tour. This is a more 
in-depth tour of the interior workings of Hoover Dam. It allowed us to take close up photos of the machinery,
as well as pictures of parts of the dam not seen on the basic tour. We burned an incredible amount of film and
memory cards on this tour. 

After getting back from the dam we visited a couple hotels, sneaking cameras in and getting interior pictures 
until security chased us away. Brian got pretty creative explaining his digital camera to security. He claimed it 
was a television, a tricorder, or anything else that would get security off his back. At the Las Vegas Hilton, we 
checked out the Star Trek show. The displays were a little lame but the motion ride was one of the best I've ever 
been on. From the Hilton we went to the Stratosphere. There we found a "Virtual Reality" Duke Nukem 3D machine set
up for deathmatch, which was pretty cool. We got a lot of pictures of the Las Vegas skyline, as well as many 
interior shots. Ruben and I rode the "Big Shot." This thrill ride shoots the riders 100 feet or so straight up from
the top of the Stratosphere tower, then lets you freefall back down. Believe me, once you can't see the tower under 
you anymore, you get a real feel for how high over Vegas you are. At the peak of the ride, they snap a souvenir
picture of the riders. Check the 3D Realms web site for this hilarious picture. For dinner, we ate really, really, 
thick steaks at the "Golden Steer." (I can't thank George enough for buying the food on this trip.)

Wednesday, we piled into the hummer and headed for the hills. Brian remained behind to get more pictures of the
Strip, while the rest of us spent a day of fun and crazed picture taking out at beautiful Red Rock Canyon. This area
is actually only a few minutes away from Vegas, but the place feels really isolated. It's very quiet out there, 
and a constant breeze keeps you cooler than in the city. We each got a chance to drive the hummer, and at one point
we jumped out and harassed a small herd of wild burro alongside the road. After driving through the canyon area, we
moved on to the -very- small town of Blue Diamond, where a sign on the outskirts claims the population is low and 
the elevation is high. We gassed up the hummer, then headed back to a replica old west town, where we shot even 
more film. Tired and sunburned, we drove back to enjoy our last night in Vegas. We ate the dinner buffet at Treasure
Island, then I learned how to play "Let It Ride." Playing this game with a lot of beginners luck, I managed to 
recover most of my gambling losses for the trip. At this point, we were supposed to go see the "Mystere" show, but
the hotel messed up our reservations and we ended up missing out.

Thursday was the final day of our Vegas mission. We returned the hummer in reasonable condition, then split the
team up to get as many casino interior shots as we could. Caesar's Palace and New York, New York both turned out to 
be gold mines of architecture and textures. The team regrouped at The Mirage, then piled into cabs and headed to
the airport for the return trip home. The flight back was smooth and uneventful, or at least I think it was since I 
was asleep almost the whole time (I slept hardly at all in Vegas.) 

The adventure wasn't over yet, though-- once the plane set down at DFW, we were greeted by my wife (Rose) and 
George's girlfriend (Candace.) They had arranged our transportation back to the office... a beautiful white stretch
limousine. The limo was driven by a nice fellow named Tony who was -really- feeling under the weather. He 
seemed to be having trouble breathing and coughed a lot. Most of us were pretty tired, so we decided to go to
Bennigan's for dinner (the idea being that Bennigan's would be quicker than going to some swanky place downtown.)
Here the story takes a decidedly strange turn. After ordering, we were just sitting around chatting, when out of the
blue a heavy glass light fixture fell on Brian's head. The bulb smashed, but the fixture itself remained intact,
bouncing off his head and onto the floor. It turns out the fixture had been held up by a -spoon- which had been bent
into place to replace a missing chain link. The waitress then put the light back into place by bending the same
spoon around the chain links again. "There," she said, "that's -never- coming down." Brian was hurt and dazed but
otherwise seemed to be okay. He gave the manager his name and address, and then the manager flatly refused to comp 
us a meal as a sort of apology. Needless to say, our entire group walked out. Once outside, we found the limo, but
the driver was missing. We were locked out and had no idea where he had gone. I had visions of the driver being 
found dead in the back of the limo and later seeing our insane adventure as a made-for-TV movie. Fortunately he 
later turned up (across the street) and we took the limo to an IHOP instead.

That's the whole story, and that's the honest truth. Everybody hopes to get out to Vegas again some time, and 
hopefully next time we'll be able to more properly enjoy it.