Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------







THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S FINGER

Keith Schuler

Level Designer / 3D Realms





HOW THE MONKEY STOLE CHRISTMAS (1/4/99)

I haven't updated my .plan since September, when I bought my new car. Well, my fan has been clamoring for me to update, despite my constant excuse that I have nothing new to write about. I haven't written any editorials in a while because it would just be a rehash of things that angered me in the past. So, in light of the fact that I have nothing relevant to write about, I'm going to write about something irrelevant: my Christmas vacation. 

First, let me tell you an historical tidbit. I lived in Florida most of my life and that's where my family lives now. They live in a smallish town called Merritt Island, right near Kennedy Space Center, where my father has worked since the dawn of time. When I moved to Dallas to start working for 3D Realms, various events conspired against me in such a way that I did not get a chance to visit with my family for the next three years. Well, back in April 1998, I found out that my sister was getting married on January 2, 1999, so this year I -had- to get back home for Christmas. So, in June, I purchased plane tickets to Orlando for my wife and myself.

Our story begins on the first day of winter, December 22. It was my last day here in Dallas before going away on the trip. I hired a cab to pick us up at 5:45 on the morning of December 23. Because my sleep schedule was a little askew, I decided I would just stay up all night and then catch some winks on the plane. I stayed at George's house and watched movies until 4 AM. My drive home from his house was an interesting one, because overnight every road in town had been covered with a thin layer of ice. I arrived home and turned on the television to discover that the entire Metroplex had become a nightmarish spectacle of "Dallas Drivers On Ice." No doubt some of you remember that fateful morning.

By this time, I was feeling somewhat groggy from lack of sleep. News reporters on the radio and TV were warning me to "stay off the roads at all costs. It's just not worth it!" Some sections of I-635 and many other main roads had been shut down. 5:45 AM rolled around and our cab did not show. At this point my wife and I had to make a fateful decision. Should we stay and wait, or should we get going in order to catch our flight on time? We waited until 6 AM, then loaded up the car and left. We had a flight to catch at 7:30, after all.

On a typical day it takes me 30 to 45 minutes to drive to DFW airport. This was of course no typical day, and that fact was driven home when I pulled onto I-635. The traffic was very dense and crawling along at about 25 MPH. Despite this, cars were still sliding into each other, like some sort of macabre slow-motion ballet. Two hours later we gratefully slid down the exit ramp to the park 'n' ride lot. It was closed due to dangerous ice conditions in the parking lot so we slid back up the entrance ramp and onto the highway. The satellite parking lots at the airport were also closed, although it took us an entire lap around DFW to verify this. At 8:45AM I ended up parked in the regular parking lot of the airport, which costs $12 a day.

My wife and I unloaded the car and went inside to find the airport was just as much a madhouse as the highways. Every outgoing flight from DFW had been cancelled, including ours. The announcer was telling everybody to give up and go home, a prospect I did not relish. Fortunately, a 1:30 flight to Orlando was still good to go, and we managed to get confirmed on that flight. In light of the 5 hour wait ahead of me, I collapsed on the floor from fatigue. I later learned that several children passed the time by prodding my limp body as I snored on the floor at DFW.

Our flight was very comfortable, and from here on, my vacation went exactly according to plan. Orlando airport was quite muggy, a welcome change from the freezing temperatures in Dallas. That night I slept the sleep of the dead. The next day we did typical Christmas Eve things, primarily consisting of last minute shopping and driving around town looking at Christmas lights. It was strange to see how my hometown had changed in the past three years.

Christmas morning was spent opening presents with my immediate family and whichever relatives happened to be in the house. All of my presents were excellent, and I heartily thank everyone who was so generous to get something for me. That afternoon we had Christmas dinner with my mother's side of the family. This year, our hostess decided to try something different from the present exchange of previous years. Everybody was to create a Christmas ornament by hand and then we would trade these after dinner. Well, this plan was all well and good, but I didn't find out about it until a couple hours before it was time to go. My ornament was cobbled together in about ten minutes with things I found around the house. I took a dried out pine cone and sprayed it with clear lacquer. I then sprinkled green glitter all over it. I used gold piping as a sort of garland, and tied a red ribbon to the top. Viola! I had a pine cone Christmas tree ornament that looked as good as anything a three year old could make. When it came time for the exchange, I ended up trading ornaments with my grandmother. In return for my childish creation, I received a small angel ornament made of lace and beads that obviously took a lot of time and effort. Ah, 'tis the season to feel like a heel!

That night we spent time with the Vietnamese side of my wife's family. I love Vietnamese food and my second Christmas dinner was a real treat, because several of that family are talented chefs. These people are a lot of fun because no matter how much you eat they never think you've had enough and continue to put more delicious food in front of you. Stuffed beyond compare, we exchanged gifts after dinner. My wife is half Vietnamese, but she has never learned the language, so the gift exchange was an odd experience. A great number of small (I'm 6'8") people were joyfully shouting in an incomprehensible language while my wife, her brother, and I just sort of looked around trying to understand what was going on. By the end of the evening, however, I had had one of my most enjoyable Christmas days ever.

The next few days are sort of a blur to me. We visited relatives on both sides of the family, playing games, watching movies, and bowling. At some point we did my sister's wedding rehearsal, followed by a very pleasant dinner at a cozy and elegant little courtyard restaurant that I never knew existed. 

On New Years' Eve my wife and I borrowed my sister's car and drove to Tampa, which is where her brother lives. That evening we attended a party with him and his friends. It was the sort of party held by people who would never think to invite a computer nerd like myself, so it was fun and interesting to see how other kinds of people have a good time. There was a lot of drinking going on, but they didn't have much I liked (since I dislike beer) so I ended up being the unwitting designated driver of our little group. My wife had a few drinks, though, and few things are as much fun as a drunk wife when you yourself are sober.

On New Years' Day, my wife (not hungover, thankfully) and I decided to do the Florida tourist thing, just the two of us. We went to the Disney/MGM Studios, since that's the one theme park neither of us had ever visited. We were there from noon until 11 PM, and we managed to do and see almost everything the park had to offer. All in all it was a very enjoyable day, and a great highlight in our vacation.

The next day was my sister's big day, the day she would change her last name from an intriguing "Schuler" to a somewhat lackluster "Brown." It's amazing how it took six months of hectic planning to create such a pleasantly simple affair. My own wedding was thrown together in the last few minutes before moving to Dallas so I didn't know what all a "real" wedding entailed. A great time was had by all, which is quite an accomplishment given that most of the people I know don't like to attend weddings. At the reception we had some great food, and as is usual at any social gathering, my table was the rowdiest. During the toast the groom said he was frightened by the family he had married into. Good. Be afraid, Jon, be very afraid. I wish my sister all the best in her new life with her new husband, although she'll never have as perfect a marriage as mine so she might as well give up now. :-)

At this point I expected our vacation to start winding down, but I was pleasantly surprised. I should have known better. Anytime you get a large number of the Schuler clan together, people start getting crazy and you can't help but have a good time. That evening we got a large group together and took over the local go-kart track. One of my uncles actually builds winning NASCAR chassis, and I think a number of us have the "racing spirit." Our races were spirited, to say the least, and by the end of the evening several of us were barred from ever returning to the track. 

And thus do we come to the end of my tale. The following day my wife and I packed up and had yet another pleasant flight back to chilly Dallas. We paid the whopping $144 parking fee, and drove back home to find our pets in reasonable order (i.e. alive.) With that, I will drive out of sight exclaiming "Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good night!"

For anyone who cares, here's what I got for Christmas:

A lot of candy
Several Heinlein books
Several DVDs
Several balloons (balloons are fun)
Some socks
Some tools
3 cookie jars full of shortbread cookies (my favorite kind)
3 copies of "Mary Poppins" (er, there was a slight miscommunication)
2 Playstation memory cards (a Lara Croft one, and a really BIG one)
A book called "Why Cats Paint" (interesting stuff, I want to learn more)
A four panel Oriental wall hanging (awesome and beautiful, imported from Vietnam by my Mother-In-Law)
A model ship (I hope it survived the trip home)
A Calvin Klein T-Shirt
A rechargeable flashlight
A really cool knife from the Franklin Mint featuring art by Boris
A nice new suit

Once again, many thanks go to all those who made my Christmas a special one.



