Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------







THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S FINGER

Keith Schuler

Level Designer / 3D Realms





MONKEY DOES A SOFTWARE REVIEW (2/1/99)

This month I have neither an editoral nor an amusing anecdote of my private life. Instead, I was moved to write this review of a new release for the N64: Castlevania 64.

Castlevania has always been one of my favorite series of console video games. They are all very similar to one another, even to the extent of sharing the same boss enemies, but I enjoy the emphasis on action and the exploration of creepy castle environs. I have always respected Konami as a company. On the NES they made three Castlevania games, two Contra games, and Metal Gear, all excellent. On the SNES we saw Super Castlevania and Super Contra, two of the best platform games for that system, as well as Axelay, which was my favorite shooter. On the Playstation, the Contra series went downhill, but they still gave us Metal Gear Solid and Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, which I consider to be the best platform game ever made. 

You can imagine my excitement when Konami announced a 3D Castlevania for the N64. The series would translate well into a 3rd person action game. As far as I was concerned, they didn't need to design anything new. They could borrow old enemies and environments from previous games in the series, make it 3D, and hand it over. I'd be happier than a clam exploring cobwebby dungeons, poisonous swamps, giant clock towers, evil churches, and whatever else ol' Drac wanted to put in his castle. Perhaps I'd get to meet familiar characters like Alucard from Symphony of the Night. When I found out it had been released last week, I drooled in anticipation.

Saturday morning I was just about to head to EB and purchase one, when Allen walked in the door with a rental copy. Happily, I swiped it from him, plugged it in and watched the opening cinematic with heady anticipation. It was then that my world fell down around me. I am here to tell you, folks, that this game is an insult to the good name of Castlevania. I sometimes couldn't see the screen for all my tears. I have not yet finished the game, but I will continue to play, always hunting and hoping that the "good part" might be just around the corner.

I've played about halfway through Castlevania 64, which is far enough to say with authority that the first level is pretty indicative of the gameplay throughout. The very first thing you do is hunt for a switch to open a gate in a boring maze. You then rinse and repeat a few more times. They are identical switches opening identical gates. While doing this, you fight off an endless onslaught of skeletons. Unfortunately, you can't really see the skeletons because you're constantly fighting the camera. The camera has four modes: Normal View, Action View, Battle View, and Boss View. I couldn't tell the difference between these modes, other than the text that is constantly on the screen telling me what mode I'm in. One of the few ways to have fun playing this game is to sing the "Normal View" song from MST3K: The Movie. 

The first boss seems to be the club wielding skeleton of King Kong. This would be all right, except that he's accompanied by skeletons riding motorcycles. That's right, motorcycles. I realize that the Castlevania series often seems to have no set time frame, but let's keep it gothic, folks. I felt like I was participating in a Grateful Dead video. 

In the second level you go inside the castle to discover the joys of exploring two nearly identical towers. At this point I realized that this game was to have no mood or environment at all. This is one time where a short clipping plane and distance fog would look really good, but it's not there. There's no creepy lighting at all. In fact, the entire castle seems to be lit up as bright as day. The first level was even devoid of music, for crying out loud. The rest of the game's music is only so-so, and barely audible. Also, the second level introduced us to a new enemy (making four different enemies, total, so far.) They were the familiar Medusa heads from previous Castlevania games, but the targeting cursor so obscured them that they just looked like floating red squares. You spend a lot of your time fighting floating red squares in this game. Couple that with all sorts of instant death jump puzzles and you've got one humdinger of a bad second level.

The third level almost looked good, and this small allowance is what kept me playing for as long as I did. The object of this level is to find a key, which unlocks another key, which gets the third key, and finally allows you to acquire the last key, which unlocks the gate to the next level. On level three you get to use the store for the first time, which is nice because the player was probably wondering why he was collecting money for the previous two levels. This store doesn't even come close to the huge variety of items available in Symphony of the Night. There are only about ten different items to choose from, here. 

The fourth level adds to the intensity of gameplay by adding an extra element of unfairness. Fortunately, you can overcome this by taking advantage of a couple bugs in the game. You are pursued through a hedge maze by two unkillable dogs and one unkillable caretaker with a chainsaw. Need a quick breather? Jump off the beaten path and all the enemies freeze in mid animation, standing there like wax statues until you decide to jump back into their field of view.

I played further, but that's all I've got to say for today. The most enjoyable aspect of Castlevania 64 is laughing your head off at all its myriad failures: the poor translations, the horribly animated characters, the terrible camera, the unremarkable music, the total lack of mood, and the redundant nature of the gameplay. But though I was laughing outwardly, I still silently wept for this horrible blow to the Castlevania series. Try again, Konami, and next time get it right.