Account Name:  Keith Schuler
Email address: keiths@3drealms.com
----------







THE MAPPIN' MONKEY'S FINGER

Keith Schuler

Level Designer / 3D Realms





MONKEY DOES A SOFTWARE PREVIEW (4/29/99)

For the past couple of weeks I have spent much of my free time helping George to play, review, and suggest final design tweaks to Duke's latest foray on the N64, Duke Nukem: Zero Hour. What began many months ago as a port of the Playstation hit, Duke Nukem: Time To Kill, has evolved into an entirely unique game, unlike any other Duke Nukem game ever made. The guys at Eurocomm deserve a cheer and a pat on the back for all their hard work and single minded dedication. They have created what is, in my opinion, the best game for the Nintendo 64 since the release of Zelda 64. It will no doubt become one of the best 3rd person "run 'n' gun" games available for any system.

The game begins with Duke in the present day Earth Defense Force compound in New York City, receiving an urgent message on the video monitor. The message is from none other than himself, trapped somewhere in Earth's past. Aliens have travelled back in time to mess up key points in Earth's history. Duke went back in time to fight them, but along the way his time machine was destroyed, and unless the present day Duke travels through time and collects the pieces of the broken time machine, the future will forever be altered by the aliens' evil plot.

So begins Duke's greatest adventure yet. Before he is done he will visit many facinating places, including post-apocalyptic New York City, Fort Roswell (where Area 51 now stands), and a Waterworld-esque man made atoll. He will fly high on the Hindenburg and sink with the Titanic. He will meet interesting people, including General Custer and Jack The Ripper.

Not just another great game, Duke Nukem:Zero Hour is also a feat of technical wizardry for the Nintendo 64. The game resides on a 32Mb cartridge, the largest currently available, and I have no doubt they used every last bit of that memory. Here are some of the amazing things this game accomplishes:

1. It has more speech than any other N64 title, and the most speech of any Duke Nukem game on any system. Duke has something different to say for every occasion throughout the gameplay and cinematics. The other characters have plenty to say as well.

2. The areas Duke visits are truly vast, and thanks to ingenious programming by the folks at Eurocomm, you won't ever see a foggy clipping plane. These worlds just stretch out seemingly forever.

3. The variety of levels is nothing short of incredible. You get to visit New York City in three different time periods, as well as the Old West, Victorian England, and an alien mothership. The adventure spans across eighteen levels, most of which are huge. They are all re-entrant, allowing you to go back and find those secrets you missed the first time through. Even the most skilled players will enjoy 20 hours of gameplay or more.

4. The graphics are varied and beautiful. All of the time zones are littered with countless posters, signs, pictures, and decorations, full of both useful information and gags. The enemies also wear costumes appropriate to their respective time zones. If you have the RAM Expansion Pak for your N64, you can play the game with high-res textures, making it even more of a visual treat.

5. The control scheme is brilliant. There was a slight learning curve, but once I grew used to the controls, I found I could move around, aim, and circle strafe with all the ease of a mouse. 

6. Multiplayer "Dukematch" is included for up to four players.

7. Eurocomm has included support for the Rumble Pak and, as I stated above, the RAM Expansion Pak. You can save your game progress on the Memory Card that plugs into your controller.

Duke Nukem: Zero Hour should hit the shelves sometime during the next couple of months. I highly recommend it. Those of you starved for some Duke action should pick this title up and check it out. It's just the fix you need until Duke Nukem Forever ships.

MONKEY DOES A SOFTWARE REVIEW (2/1/99)

This month I have neither an editoral nor an amusing anecdote of my private life. Instead, I was moved to write this review of a new release for the N64: Castlevania 64.

Castlevania has always been one of my favorite series of console video games. They are all very similar to one another, even to the extent of sharing the same boss enemies, but I enjoy the emphasis on action and the exploration of creepy castle environs. I have always respected Konami as a company. On the NES they made three Castlevania games, two Contra games, and Metal Gear, all excellent. On the SNES we saw Super Castlevania and Super Contra, two of the best platform games for that system, as well as Axelay, which was my favorite shooter. On the Playstation, the Contra series went downhill, but they still gave us Metal Gear Solid and Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, which I consider to be the best platform game ever made. 

You can imagine my excitement when Konami announced a 3D Castlevania for the N64. The series would translate well into a 3rd person action game. As far as I was concerned, they didn't need to design anything new. They could borrow old enemies and environments from previous games in the series, make it 3D, and hand it over. I'd be happier than a clam exploring cobwebby dungeons, poisonous swamps, giant clock towers, evil churches, and whatever else ol' Drac wanted to put in his castle. Perhaps I'd get to meet familiar characters like Alucard from Symphony of the Night. When I found out it had been released last week, I drooled in anticipation.

Saturday morning I was just about to head to EB and purchase one, when Allen walked in the door with a rental copy. Happily, I swiped it from him, plugged it in and watched the opening cinematic with heady anticipation. It was then that my world fell down around me. I am here to tell you, folks, that this game is an insult to the good name of Castlevania. I sometimes couldn't see the screen for all my tears. I have not yet finished the game, but I will continue to play, always hunting and hoping that the "good part" might be just around the corner.

I've played about halfway through Castlevania 64, which is far enough to say with authority that the first level is pretty indicative of the gameplay throughout. The very first thing you do is hunt for a switch to open a gate in a boring maze. You then rinse and repeat a few more times. They are identical switches opening identical gates. While doing this, you fight off an endless onslaught of skeletons. Unfortunately, you can't really see the skeletons because you're constantly fighting the camera. The camera has four modes: Normal View, Action View, Battle View, and Boss View. I couldn't tell the difference between these modes, other than the text that is constantly on the screen telling me what mode I'm in. One of the few ways to have fun playing this game is to sing the "Normal View" song from MST3K: The Movie. 

The first boss seems to be the club wielding skeleton of King Kong. This would be all right, except that he's accompanied by skeletons riding motorcycles. That's right, motorcycles. I realize that the Castlevania series often seems to have no set time frame, but let's keep it gothic, folks. I felt like I was participating in a Grateful Dead video. 

In the second level you go inside the castle to discover the joys of exploring two nearly identical towers. At this point I realized that this game was to have no mood or environment at all. This is one time where a short clipping plane and distance fog would look really good, but it's not there. There's no creepy lighting at all. In fact, the entire castle seems to be lit up as bright as day. The first level was even devoid of music, for crying out loud. The rest of the game's music is only so-so, and barely audible. Also, the second level introduced us to a new enemy (making four different enemies, total, so far.) They were the familiar Medusa heads from previous Castlevania games, but the targeting cursor so obscured them that they just looked like floating red squares. You spend a lot of your time fighting floating red squares in this game. Couple that with all sorts of instant death jump puzzles and you've got one humdinger of a bad second level.

The third level almost looked good, and this small allowance is what kept me playing for as long as I did. The object of this level is to find a key, which unlocks another key, which gets the third key, and finally allows you to acquire the last key, which unlocks the gate to the next level. On level three you get to use the store for the first time, which is nice because the player was probably wondering why he was collecting money for the previous two levels. This store doesn't even come close to the huge variety of items available in Symphony of the Night. There are only about ten different items to choose from, here. 

The fourth level adds to the intensity of gameplay by adding an extra element of unfairness. Fortunately, you can overcome this by taking advantage of a couple bugs in the game. You are pursued through a hedge maze by two unkillable dogs and one unkillable caretaker with a chainsaw. Need a quick breather? Jump off the beaten path and all the enemies freeze in mid animation, standing there like wax statues until you decide to jump back into their field of view.

I played further, but that's all I've got to say for today. The most enjoyable aspect of Castlevania 64 is laughing your head off at all its myriad failures: the poor translations, the horribly animated characters, the terrible camera, the unremarkable music, the total lack of mood, and the redundant nature of the gameplay. But though I was laughing outwardly, I still silently wept for this horrible blow to the Castlevania series. Try again, Konami, and next time get it right.