Ion Storm

User Name.........Noel
Full Name.........Noel "The Shadow" Stephens
Description.......Systems/WebPage dude
Last NT Logon.....Friday, October 31, 1997 at 12:42






Shadow's Finger





Shadow's Journal


10-31-97


I just have to say that some
        people (no names) have about as much tact as they do
        brains. <geesh>-Shadow
 
p.s. don't go biting into any
        apples with razors! >:)



 


09-25-97
        5:30 A.M.


Ack!Well
        let's see it has been around 4 months since my last
        update! Yeah, that is exactly how I would describe the
        past four months. So what is to come? I have just
        finished the "un-official" official Daikatana
        section to our new section for the www.ionstorm.com games site. This should be released
        sometime this week if all goes well with Doppelganger and
        Dom...er...that strategy game we just acquired. The site
        is really supposed to be just a simple description of the
        games in progress. I feel like I have given birth. So,
        along with this John bet me that I couldn't write a
        pacman based game in three weeks. Well, actually his bet
        was that I couldn't start it and finish it. I not only
        said that I could finish it, but I also boasted by saying
        that I could do it in 3 weeks. So now it is 2 1/2 weeks
        away(looking at the clock) ummm...actually 2 and 2/3
        weeks away and I have the whole thing almost done. I have
        some really cool graphics along with a few surprises here
        and there. It uses the DirectX 5.0 drivers and runs
        around 50-55 FPS. I have been having a few problems with
        the Direct Sound buffer, but I think I know where my
        brain has screwed up. Along with this, I have managed to
        slip in some extra time to start working with some new
        ActiveX applications, however I am really waiting for
        JScript with 4.0 IE! This is going to pop the crap out of
        Netscape. Sorry guys, remember how painful it was to go
        from DOS to Windows? Well, start feeling the burn again!
        ;)
I have kind of idling from the
        weapons code for Daikatana for a couple of reasons:
1.) There were other things
        pressing that directly related to my real position.
2.) Nelno consolidated all of the
        weapons into one DLL, so I wanted to make sure that he
        had all of that working before I started trampling in
        with my noodle code. <:)
3.) Lots of the models are being
        re-done. We had some cool concepts, however when you have
        a cool concept sometimes even cooler things pop into mind
        and you decide to just make something that will knock the
        crap out of everything else.
4.) Writing a game from
        scratch(even a simple one like pacman) is a simple task.
        However, if it is your first game to ever write from
        beginning to end it can be a little frustrating. 
Will I update more frequently?
        Um...not sure. Will Robby the Robot come back? Sure when
        he has something to announce, but I began to realize that
        it would become a bother to have him there all of the
        time. I also have a fairly cool link site in the games
        area for the games. The layout for the links section we
        have Sverre to thank...he suggested it and I took to it!
        ;)
-l8tr
-God of War