Ion Storm

User Name.........Noel
Full Name.........Noel "The Shadow" Stephens
Description.......Systems/WebPage dude
Last NT Logon.....Thursday, November 20, 1997 at 01:57






Shadow's Finger





Shadow's Journal


11-19-97


Well now,There have been so many things happening
        that I have been hard strapped to a mule! I can say one
        thing, the amount of HTML scripting(if you would call it
        that) that I am in for is going to be enough to keep me
        busy busy busy. Dave has come up with a conceptual design
        to a new layout that I think people will really enjoy. We
        are trying to stick with the high-tech/organic look and
        mingle in a bit of order and formal feel to the site. I
        like to think of it as a cross breed between CNN and
        Front 242. (errg) 
On another note, we have started
        our FREE SHIT campaign, which I hope no one takes too
        much offense on the terms used. It was a catchy name...so
        we went with it. As far as when will we start to see some
        of the new site? Well, I am hard pressed. I hate
        Microsoft for coming out with so many new cool features
        that I can't pass them up. I also hate Netscape for not
        trying to follow Microsoft's advancements in the Internet
        industry. So, I am splitting the site into two sites
        really. One for IE and one for Netscape. I will make a
        note that if you use IE 4.0 you will see some very very
        cool shit with very little bandwidth consumption(and I
        mean that the site under IE 4.0 will be about half the
        size <in terms of bytes> as that of the Netscape or
        former versions to IE). Microsoft has just let loose to
        many new cool features for me to pass them by. 
On another note. Nelno has been
        frantically coding his little heart out making some of
        the coolest AI/features to Daikatana! I think of him as a
        coding machine....that never stops...er...well if UO went
        down then he would never stop. :P
 



11-07-97


StarShip Troopers!Ok, here we go!   I have to put the
        record straight.  I just got back from seeing
        StarShip Troopers, and I have to say: "OH MY
        GOD!"  
Lemme let ya in on something...if
        you liked Doom, Doom2, and any other game that had
        carnage, death, destruction, nudity, explosions, burning
        bodies, and anything that is action related...then you
        HAVE TO GO SEE THIS MOVIE!  The special effects are,
        I would say, the best that I have seen in any movie
        EVER!  The bugs in masses charging while their limbs
        get shot off...oh jesus...it rules down the house.  
        Go see the movie!  If you like plot...forget it...go
        see some girly movie if you want plot.  This is the
        HARD CORE MAN'S MOVIE!  Melting bodies, limbs
        chopped off, major explosions(second time), blood
        EVERYWHERE, head chopped off, bug spew flying onto faces,
        errrrrgg.....agggle....I have to rest my brain.  Go
        see it!
-Shadow / God of War