*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: noel
Plan modified: Thu Mar 23 11:25:25 2000







NOEL




NOEL'S
      .PLAN UPDATE


Thursday
      March 23rd 2000


Hahaha,

      I just was reported a very funny bug.  It appears that if you stand
      right next to the exact location of a specific monster and start using a
      'specific' type of weapon which does an insane amount of damage, the
      monster will die within the first 10 milliseconds of its existance. 
      A problem?  Well... in the case of the person who might have this
      weapon at this point of the game and who already knows what and where
      things are going to happen...this could be a problem because these
      monsters in particular need to 'initialize' themselves before they are
      killed so other things can be triggered.   So, I am fixing this
      minor bug today along with one other very minor bugs. 
The good news?  Well, those are the two bugs I
      have left to do.  I also know that Shawn has kicked through a good %
      of his bugs last night.  Anyway, I figured, for those of you waiting
      for Daikatana feverishly, I would let you  know the severity level of
      most of the bugs we are dealing with (obviously the one described above is
      kind of severe if the moon and sun are aligned just so... but they are not
      like you start the game and it takes a crap to your desktop level bugs).
The bad news?  Uh... I can't find a good
      airline to book a flight to Thailand...speaking of Thailand...has anyone
      been to Phuket Thailand?  *sigh*
 Back to the grind and I will be updating my
      .plan sometime tomorrow afternoon.... :)
L8TrZ,
N03L





Monday March
      20th 2000


We are not yet gold...
      some people have jumped the gun.  We are in the process of finalizing
      a release candidate.  This means test the crap out of the game until
      your eyes fall out and your pants are sticking to your backside.  So,
      to anyone mislead by various sites saying that DK is gold... *sigh*... not
      quite yet... but it is closer than it has ever been before.  If all
      goes well then it can be considered... 'Gold'.  So far there have
      been very few reports on major bugs...like very few meaning there are a
      small quantity... a handful... nothing to worry about.  
On another note... HAHA!  I had a
      weekend!  Wooohooo!  Like I went and saw a movie and like slept
      for longer than 7 hours and I even got a chance to actually wash clothes
      AND fold them (instead of just using the dryer as my chest of
      drawers).  On top of this I have had a chance to play UT... I must
      say... *claps hands*... good good job.  I like... very much!
I just finished tweaking some of the ambient voices
      for the sidekicks and also some other sounds.  All tweaks no
      additions means no extra bugs.
L8TrZ,
N03L





Friday
      March 17th 2000


*sigh*
Been a very long 7 months!  Things have become
      quite different since I first started on this project.  During the
      process of this project I have taken off around 1 week, and most of that
      time during the 'vacation' I was sick.  However, heh, this weekend I
      am going home to have a nice long 2 day weekend... 2 WHOLE days!!!!! 
      *hint* *hint*
So, anyway, the AI has shaped up to be fairly
      intelligent without being too much of a burden on the CPU as well as the
      player.  There are a million little tiny details that I could get
      into regarding all of the time and energy that has gone into a good
      portion of the AI system, but I think I might leave most of that for a
      later date.  
During the project, I have been documenting the
      progress of the AI and world entities.  If given permission, I might
      even post that document somewhere for people to take a gander at so they
      can see the progress of at least one aspect of making a game.  After
      reading the 55 pages of documentation people will start to understand how
      MASSIVE Daikatana really is and how much work has gone into this mammoth
      game!  If it is 'ok' to post this somewhere, then I will probably
      hold off until people have had a chance to play it so they can then relate
      to the whole process.
As far as when the game will be done, well I am
      taking the weekend off and breaking the 7 day a week schedule, thus we
      must be VERY close to completion!!!!  
My bones are tired... fingers are bleeding... and I
      am happy as a pig in SH!t!!!!
So, come Monday I will probably post again to start
      an update on the progress of the game and you can count on the purtty
      little britches around your waste that I am going to post when the game is
      'officially' gold!
L8TrZ,
N03L