*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: noel
Plan modified: Wed May 24 16:49:56 2000







May 24th 2000




May
      24th 2000


Well now,
Daikatana has hit the shelves!  Along
      with this comes the inevitable... the dreaded patch.  However, never
      fear too much regarding this.  ChalreZ, Shawn, and of course myself
      have been working on fixes for things that we have come to discover since
      the demo release on the code side, and I know the mappers have been adding
      some fixes and a few extra goodies to make the patch that much more
      welcome when it is released. 
As far as Shawn and Charles are concerned,
      I know they have both been working in their 'areas' as I have been working
      on AI, World, and of course Sidekick related issues.  Some of the
      windows 2000 issues that have been solved are relating to level
      transitions and I know Shawn is working on one particular load game issue
      under Win2k.  So, if you are running 2000 and have had some crashes
      when transitioning from one level to the next, don't freak too much... the
      fix is coming soon.  As for things
      relating to the Sidekicks, well one of the additions that I have added is
      the ability for them to use those nifty health trees, medical kits
      (episode 4), and of course the various forms of the hosportal (in episode
      2 it is the fountain of life). 
On another note, things have been quite a
      change in pace and I think everyone is just 'adjusting' back to a normal
      schedule.  It is times like these that make me understand the whole
      game developer's cycle and why there are times of complete chaos and then
      there are times of nice peaceful bliss.  Either way, it is one
      fantastic ride.
I am sure there will be a good handful of
      bugs sent our way once Daikatana gets into full circulation.  As for
      when the patch is going to be released?  Can't say... because it is
      really a matter of how many more bugs pop up between now and the next few
      weeks.
Also, I would like to send out a special
      thanks to the entire Daikatana community for being so patient in waiting
      for Daikatana.  I hope that we have made all of your waiting worth
      while.  Enjoy!  
-N03L