*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: drubenfield
Plan modified: Fri Aug 21 02:15:58 1998

Well.. Hi.. This isn't really my inaugural plan file, but its the first to be on the tracker...


Big thanx to gollywog for bending dweomer's arm till he added me..

On to the cool stuff :



Since I think Cliff Blezinski's comments about real world spaces were directed at me (yeah i'm that self centered),
I figure i'll take the time to respond..

I'm not arguing for the abolition of fantastical spaces, but I think people have seen more 
than enough space temples, or alien ships, or abandoned temples.. They've been done to death..

When I talk about doing real world spaces, I'm not talking about places like my parent's house, but cool shit..

If given the choice between sneaking around an alien temple, or say.. The White House (Complete with secret service,
guard dogs, and electronic security devices), I'd take the whitehouse.. It hasn't been done to a satisfactory
level of realism, EVER. (Actually, i never played the duke nukem addons, so i'm not sure how their
depiction of the white house is). In following your suggestion tho, you could also create areas underneath the 
whitehouse that might or might not exist. Here is where you can take much more creative license, and create a 
very fantastical gamespace. 


I totally agree with overuse of those elements.. but you forgot some :

Overused in First Person Games :

5. Rocket Launchers (Actually, unrealistic weapons as a whole)
4. Fish

3. Boo Scares ( They rule if done right, but after the 40th monster jumps out at you and makes a scary noise,
it gets old)

2. Levers (Yeah right, this advanced civilization controls their entire 
security system with this single solitary lever)

1. KEYCARDS!!! Grr.



On other topics :

Looks like we have something to watch on the news for the next few days... WOOHOO.. and anybody who suggests
that this is like wag the dog should be taken out into a field and beaten with reeds.. Yeesh


Prince of egypt trailer is being shown before saving private ryan.. be sure to check it out, or snag 
it from loews site.. No idea how to stick url's in here, so go find it yourself.

Still haven't picked up independence war on account of the damn move.. Stupid joysticks are packed.. along 
with all my frigging games.. It sucks.


And since i didnt get a chance to swear very much, someone say something mean about me, so i can swear at you.

Not much else.. Send rants, raves, free computer games to drubenfield@ionstorm.com