Name: Jon Zuk
Email: jzuk@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Designer
Project: Heretic II
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11-30-98

It's great to see the positive response for Heretic II out there.  I just got back from
a one week vacation to nowhere.  I stayed home and slept mostly.  But I also played Sin and
Half Life.  I'm not quite done with Half Life yet, but I'm very near the end.  This game
is really cool!  Other than that, it was nice to get a break after 14 months of crunch.  I
went right from the Hexen 2 Mission Pack right to Heretic II without a break.  That's a long
time to go without a vacation. 

If anyone has any map making questions, feel free to email me.  We're going to try and put
up a webpage of some sort to deal with design questions.  I'll post something here if we get
that up and running.  The documentation should answer most questions, but I probably missed
some things in the last few weeks.

10-26-98

Burning the late night oil again... still.

I've been browsing the 'net while waiting for a map to vis and I checked out the reviews
of our demo.  I have to say without a doubt, this is the best reception I've seen to one
of Raven's games.  Everyone who has previewed or reviewed has been most favorable in their
responses.  Thanks!  Just remember, the demo is just a demo!  Wait until the real thing.

I've already been getting questions about making maps for the game.  Fear not!  Our
wonderful (OK, passable) editor will ship with the game.  I've also written a manual to 
explain the inner workings of all our stuff.  Right now, the manual is at 66 pages, and
that's without the pictures.

In the meantime, enjoy the demo and we'll finish the game up for ya.  Remember, bugs can
be sent to heretic2bugs@mail.ravensoft.com.

Suggestions that are not bugs can be sent to heretic2suggestions@mail.ravensoft.com.

See ya soon!


10-23-98

Well, the demo is out.

Sorry about the lateness of it, but some things were unforseen.  We had to make sure the 
demo was as solid as possible and wouldn't re-format your HD or something.  

It was nice to get on IRC (I was a newbie), and chat with some of the fans.  I think
that my .plan file is a little safer... and slower.  I was having trouble keeping
up with the constant changes in conversation.

I hope everyone enjoys the demo.  If you have any problems (or praise), mail 
heretic2bugs@mail.ravensoft.com.

Now, we just have to get to Gold!



10-22-98

D-Day!

Today is Demo Day for Heretic II.  As everyone knows, it'll be out sometime tonight.

But, the real reason I've decided to update this thing after three months is to give out
a huge thanks.  This thanks is to the whole Heretic team in general, and the programmers
specifically.  They have worked their asses off this week to make sure this demo is complete,
solid, and fun.  This game has the funnest deathmatch I've played in a long time.  

Now that the sincerity is over with, remember to get on IRC tonight to chat with some of us
Heretic guys.  For info, check www.hereticii.com, a new (and cool) page dedicated to all 
things Heretic II.

See ya in deathmatch.  I'll be Shifty.