Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: Tim Willits
Email: twillits@idsoftware.com
Description: Designer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 02/20/1998 08:55:10 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hello


I hope that everyone has had a chance to download the DeathMatch pack and try out the levels. I am pretty happy with the set we have created, I think we have enough variation in the levels to make everyone happy.  I am curious about your opinion of the levels. I would like to hear which ones you like and which ones you don't like. I don't really have a lot of time to write back but I promise I will read ever e-mail (as I always do).

I would also like to congratulate Zoid on a masterful CTF add-on. I believe it's the most polished and professional add-on yet created. I know I speak for everyone at id in saying that it was a joy to work with Zoid on that project and I hope we will find time to help the CTF project out in the future.

The Xatrix mission pack is coming along great, the guys have most of the areas built and it all looks great. They have been developing some real interesting puzzles and combat situations into their pack. The mission pack is very tightly integrated into the Quake 2 world. I believe this mission pack will raise the bar on all other mission to come.

On a separate note, I just received my copy of 'Wired Magazine' and the article on the Doom Babies just blows. I like the parts with Sverre in it but the rest just sucks. My quote about Romero being a bad manager was incorrect. I do not believe that about Romero. I have never felt like that and I don't know how that worked its self into the article. There is absolutely no tension between id and ION Storm. Hell, we all are going to their big party next week. I wish the author would have spent more time talking about more of the Doom babies than about what its like to work at id and ION. There are so many talented level designers that were not mentioned in that article. (Brandon James, American, Matt Hooper, Richard Carlson, Cleaner, Giggler, the Epic guys, the 3Drelams folks, the Half Life people and even the Jedi Knight creators) I know it was a mass market type of article and they had to be general with some of the comments but it was a little misleading about both companies. Oh well I shouldn't complain I did get my picture in 'Wired'

Oh well, I'll get back to work.

Thanks Tim