
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: rose
Plan modified: Mon Nov 30 13:54:50 1998

11/30/98

Ok my time has come.  I will be moving on from Monolith soon and wanted to say a few things to my former Lithians.
First of all it has been the experience of a life time to have the oppertunity to work among what I consider some of the finest animators modelers and engine-dudes there are.

I have with the help and guidance of all of you become someone i like.  I am not everything I want to be, but I am everything I wanted to be a year ago and that is beautiful.

The world is large and oppertunity is knocking all ver the place.

I have learned alot and have been transformed into a capable ass kicker.  Ass kicking dosn't come naturally and is a hard thing to fine tune.  

I only hope that Monolith will continue to put out the level of content that we all have come to expect.

Thanks to the Shogo Team
Thanks to the Blood 2 Team 
Thanks to the Secret Project Team
Thanks to all of the Testers
Thanks to the Gruntz Team
Thanks to the front desk and all of admin
Special Thanks to Information Services....You guys Rock
and everybody I have forgotten to list.

Thank you 



Aaron Dr. Rose 11/30/98

Ok my time has come.  I will be moving on from Monolith soon and wanted to say a few things to my former Lithians.
First of all it has been the experience of a life time to have the oppertunity to work among what I consider some of the finest animators modelers and engine-dudes there are.

I have with the help and guidance of all of you become someone i like.  I am not everything I want to be, but I am everything I wanted to be a year ago and that is beautiful.

The world is large and oppertunity is knocking all ver the place.

I have learned alot and have been transformed into a capable ass kicker.  Ass kicking dosn't come naturally and is a hard thing to fine tune.  

I only hope that Monolith will continue to put out the level of content that we all have come to expect.

Thanks to the Shogo Team
Thanks to the Blood 2 Team 
Thanks to the Secret Project Team
Thanks to all of the Testers
Thanks to the Gruntz Team
Thanks to the front desk and all of admin
Special Thanks to Information Services....You guys Rock
and everybody I have forgotten to list.

Thank you 



Aaron Dr. Rose 11/30/98

Ok my time has come.  I will be moving on from Monolith soon and wanted to say a few things to my former Lithians.
First of all it has been the experience of a life time to have the oppertunity to work among what I consider some of the finest animators modelers and engine-dudes there are.

I have with the help and guidance of all of you become someone i like.  I am not everything I want to be, but I am everything I wanted to be a year ago and that is beautiful.

The world is large and oppertunity is knocking all ver the place.

I have learned alot and have been transformed into a capable ass kicker.  Ass kicking dosn't come naturally and is a hard thing to fine tune.  

I only hope that Monolith will continue to put out the level of content that we all have come to expect.

Thanks to the Shogo Team
Thanks to the Blood 2 Team 
Thanks to the Secret Project Team
Thanks to all of the Testers
Thanks to the Gruntz Team
Thanks to the front desk and all of admin
Special Thanks to Information Services....You guys Rock
and everybody I have forgotten to list.

Thank you 



Aaron Dr. Rose 11/24/98

Happy hollidays everybody and thanks for reading my thing.
The source code as well as the editing software and a couple extras are said to be heading out to the public this Wednesday.  This is good.  I recently have been up to my you know what in a new title we are producing and publishing in which the Lithtech engine is once again utilized.  I love that engine...:)

Hey if any of you ever get the chance to go to a place that throws paintball matches....do so.  I recently went with a few guys from Electronic Arts and it was a gas.  I am in love with paintball.  The thrill was unatouchable, never before have I hurt so bad after 2 hours of fun.  Running while in the squatted position is Cruely Difficult.  The best feeling had to be strafeing across an open patch of floor pretending you are an Enforcer Kicking Ass with the Shredder.  If you get a chance ........Take it.

Sorry for the long gap in updates but ive been pretty busy as of late.

Dr. Rose10/28/98

Ok, since my plan update yesterday I have recieved alot
of feedback concerning the actual label of the groups of mugs "people" that are going to be crushing across our digital landscapes.  Most are very unhappy with the clan idea.....To tell the truth so am I.  I mean who likes a clan.  I have put alot of thought into the subject and 
I feel that I would be happy with anything just as long as I get to group up with a bunch of dudes/chicks and frag frag frag away.....right!

I completely understand if some of you out there are just downright sick and tired of Q.  I on the other hand am not.
I enjoy multiplay and diversity is the spice of life......right!!!

This is taken from an email I recieved this morning....

Mabye Shogo Teams should be called
Forces, or Corporations. Like... Team Ordog, or The Ordog Force.


10/27/98

Howdy howdy.  I have been checking in on a few multiplayer
Shogo games and let me tell ya these guys and gals
aren't messing around.  They got good fast.  The multiplay is working out very well....there are a few (t)issues
like serverlag and falling out of some of the levels,
but these things are all being delt with as i sit here.

Gamespy on the shogo cd seem to be a surefire way to crush.

I can't wait for the clans...

Rose   


10/22/98


Blood Hag


Holy cow I was soo Stoked today.  I was
fortunate enough to hear the coolest band
in the local Seattle area that I have ever
heard.Blood Hag Blood HagBlood HagBlood HagBlood Hag 

The beats were rippin the riffs truely dark
and the vocals were second only to....well
nobody here in Seattle.  I dig this band.
It gets better, I am going to go pound out
some brutality with the drummer and maybe the
bass player this Saturday....>:-)....Oooohhhhhh
hhhhh  Yyyeeeeaaaaaaaa.  I actually get to turn up for
a once.  

The band is a must see....I haven seen them as of yet
but the have a show coming up with Death and someone
else sometime in December,Ill get the when and where info
as soon as I can.

Stay Dark.

Happy Pimp


10/14/98

All right I have been spewing out alot of non work related stuff lately and I just thought that I'd talk about work for a change.  

Things have been going good lately, my team of super ass
stomping prop designers have been crushing out a flury of low polly stocking stuffers and if I might say so myself....they are looking very good.  We have alot of very good talent as well as good spirits.....and I don't mean Jack Daniels.

The project is under wraps so I cannot really go into detail but our engineers are still finding new ways to make your eyes and brains happy and twisted utilizing the Lithtech Engine.

I recently went down to the Art Institute of Seattle to see thier new labs and holy crap are they kicken.  Brand spanking new Intergraph TDZ 2000 GL's each sporting a single 400 processor and all are NT networked.  Much props to Josh Blazer...Mad scientist of 3/D animation.
Love that Projector....

Bloodhag Bloodhag Bloodhag....if anyone gets a chance to see these guys please e me and tell me how it goes.

One more thing..............................................

Word up to Chris Kelly Nate Spraig Ivan Trev Walter TJ Shawn
Todd Larry Jason and all of those BellingHampsters up north.

Much Love.

The Doc


10/12/98

In responce to the Professor of Madness

that is pretty cool but I was
thinking about something more like



Rancid Entrail Secretion....or maybe

Stompasauruscrush....or maybe even

Pumpasaurusflex....oooohhhhh yea baby..


10/12/98

And for your further enjoyment...here's my
Playstation top 10...

 1)Gran Turismo
 2)Gran Turismo
 3)Gran Turismo
 4)Gran Turismo
 5)Gran Turismo
 6)Gran Turismo
 7)Gran Turismo
 8)Gran Turismo
 9)Gran Turismo
10)Gran Turismo

Ha haha hahahh  ahhahhhahah hahahahh 
Just kidding....I'll have the real list
as soon as I can remember to bring in
my games.....But if you get a chance check out
"Tenchu," it is good.


10/9/98

Dr. Rose's music top ten.....

 1)Suffocation......Breeding the spawn
 2)Deicide..........Leigon
 3)Cannibal Corpse..Eaten back to life
 4)Neurosis.........Souls at zero
 5)Napalm Death.....Harmony Corruption
 6)Christdriver.....Everything burns
 7)Slayer...........Hell awaits
 8)Bob Marley.......Legend
 9)U2...............Zooropa
10)Black Flag.......Wasted again

Eennnnnjjjjooooyyyyy.


10/7/98
Blood.....blood....bloodddd
Rename nodes teaching a grip of interns the way of the walk
and stuff like that are the things that have been making my world go round lately...I like it ....it keeps me busy...
because we all know what I'm u to when I do not have anything to do......Playing Blood-2....Playing Shogo M.A.D.
and playing any other videogame that I can get my 
grubs on...Gots to go 

Heres a little doctorly advise to anybody who wants to kick ass...Crush..pummel.pump...destroy..and eat whales that get in your path...



Saladin Ali-Salaam...Word.Up.Pimp




10/1/98

New month, new plan, new stuff to do.

Lately I've been working on rendering out
high resolution images of characters for
cardboard cutout standees.  It's a learning process.
The standee I've been working on is a mage
from Rage of Mages.  I think that Im going
to do one for Gruntz as well.  I love the ability
to work on lots of different stuff.  MONOLITH RULZ.


9/30/98

Well Shogo is kicking ass on the polls.
Planet Shogo is looking sweet, and Gamespy
support will be awsome.

I just picked up a copy of Parasite Eve for
the playstation and I like it, especially the
way it mixes the sorta feel of resident evil
with FFV11.  I think I'll pick up Spyro next...

Gran Turismo is my fave to date....love that force-
feedback:-).

Blood .....gurgle.....gurgle....Bllloooooooodddddd.


9/23/98

Bloody Bloody Bloody, 

Blood of the ancient one.




9/17/98

Shogo's Gold and looking good.
I've been keeping myself busy working on
the B2 weapon powerups...and let me just say that
is an honor to have the oppertunity to work
with the B2 team.  These guys kik ass.  All of
weapons are very cool as well as crushy, and pumpy.

My plan remains the same---Crush stomp and destroy.

Planetshogo....Hell yea!!!!!



9/17/98




9/14/98

Hello again, and welcome to my office.  Over the weekend I
went out into the world and scored the coolest
Apt. in Seattle.  This sucker overlookes Lake Union
and Queen Anne as well as downtown. My girly and I 
have lived in rat infested megadumps for the
last 3 years, and this is going to be ass-kikn.

SHOGO is lookin pimp as it gets, cutting edge technology
utilized by the coolest bunch of dudes this side of
the lake.  It looks pretty close to complete and I for
one am very excited.  I set up a server on my machine 
last week and everything ran smoothly.

I have been working on a bunch of weapon powerups
for Blood 2 lately and man o man are these things
a step up from the last Blood.  Although the original 
Blood is and always will be the best.

And back to the grind I go.



9/14/98




9/4/98

   My plan is to kik ass.




 


