GarageGames plan resource for Jeff Tunnell
Posted Saturday March 3, 2001 at 4:07 GMT
Use the link to see the HTML version of the plan along with any posted
comments: http://www.garagegames.com?sec=mg&mod=resource&page=view&qid=572

I can't believe it! We have provided an incredibly powerful (and free) method of allowing people to build teams for creating games, yet few people are using it. Maybe it's our fault because we haven't explained it well enough or maybe our user interface is bad, but whatever it is, get over it and use the Marketplace!! 

For those of you that don't know what it is, the GarageGames Marketplace is a free, game development-only version of job sites such as Monster.com, eLance, or Hotjobs.com. 

In the Marketplace you can post your profile/resume to let others see what you are doing. Your profile can be posted in any of three over thirteen categories such as Programmer, Web Developer, Designer, etc. In addition, you can enter your specialty (in your own words), skill level, talent descriptions, work samples, screen shots, and URL links to your own works. 

Even if you are happily employed, it doesn't hurt to promote yourself a little. For this situation we allow you to choose an option that tells readers you are Employed, Make No Offers, or if you are feeling frisky, you can choose Employed, But Willing To Listen:) 

In a similar manner you can post your Company and Project information for self promotion or simply to communicate what you are doing and get feedback from a vibrant development community. 

Lastly, we have Help Wanted Ads that allow you to post job or team openings. These ads can range from large companies with paying positions all the way down to first timers trying to solicit like-minded team members for their first project. 

I can tell you that this system works. In the past month, Monster Studios has successfully recruited a sub-contract programmer, two low poly 3D shape artists, and a musician/sfx specialist. They were all small projects, but they all paid money to the developers. 

GarageGames does not make money off the Marketplace, but it also doesn't cost us much to run it. We see it as a service to back up our mission statement of providing technology, tools, team building, education, and a market for indie game developers.

